.TH host_info 2 8/13/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
host_info   \-   gets information about host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

/* the definition of host_info_t from mach.h - sys/host_info.h is */

typedef	int	*host_info_t;		/* variable length array of int */

/* two  interpretations of info are: */

   struct host_basic_info {
	int		max_cpus;	/* maximum possible cpus for
					   which kernel is configured */
	int		avail_cpus;	/* number of cpus now available */
	vm_size_t	memory_size;	/* size of memory in bytes */
	cpu_type_t	cpu_type;	/* cpu type */
	cpu_subtype_t	cpu_subtype;	/* cpu subtype */
   };
typedef struct host_basic_info		*host_basic_info_t;


struct host_sched_info {
	int		min_timeout;	/* minimum timeout in milliseconds */
	int		min_quantum;	/* minimum quantum in milliseconds */
};
typedef struct host_sched_info *host_sched_info_t


.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t host_info(host, flavor, host_info, host_infoCnt)
	host_t 		host;
	int 		flavor;
	host_info_t 	host_info;	/* in and out */
	unsigned int 	*host_infoCnt;	/* in and out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
host
The host for which information is to be obtained
.TP 15
.B
flavor
The type of statistics that are wanted.  Currently
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO, HOST_PROCESSOR_SLOTS,
and 
.B HOST_SCHED_INFO
are implemented.
.TP 15
.B
host_info
Statistics about the host specified by 
.B host.
.TP 15
.B
host_infoCnt
Size of the info structure. Should be
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO_COUNT
for 
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO.
Should be the max number of cpus returned by
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO
for  
.B HOST_PROCESSOR_SLOTS.
Should be  
.B HOST_SCHED_INFO_COUNT
for 
.B HOST_SCHED_INFO.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Returns the selected information array for a host, as specified
by  
.B flavor.

.B host_info
is an array of integers that is supplied
by the caller, and filled with specified information. 
.B host_infoCnt
is supplied as the maximum number of integers in 
.B host_info.
On return, it contains the actual number of integers in 
.B host_info.
The host may be specified by either the host port or the
privileged host port.

Basic information is defined by
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO.
The size of this information is defined by 
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO_COUNT.
Processor slots of the active (available) processors is defined by
.B HOST_PROCESSOR_SLOTS.
The size of this information should be obtained from the 
.B max_cpus
field of the structure returned by 
.B HOST_BASIC_INFO.
Additional information of interest to schedulers is defined by
.B HOST_SCHED_INFO.
The size of this information is defined by 
.B HOST_SCHED_INFO_COUNT.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B host
is not a host or
.B flavor
is not recognized.
.TP 25
MIG_ARRAY_TOO_LARGE
Returned info array is too large for
.B host_info.

.B host_info
is filled as much as possible.
.B host_infoCnt
is set to the number of elements that would
be returned if there were enough room.

.SH BUGS
Availability limited.  Systems without this call support a host_info
call with an incompatible calling sequence.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B host_ports, host_kernel_version, host_processors, processor_info

