.TH memory_object_data_provided 2 12/18/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
memory_object_data_provided  \-  gives kernel data for memory object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t memory_object_data_provided(memory_control,
				offset, data, data_count, lock_value)
	memory_object_control_t
			memory_control;
	vm_offset_t	offset;
	pointer_t	data;
	int		data_count;
	vm_prot_t	lock_value;



.fi
.ft P
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B memory_object_data_provided
supplies the kernel with data for the
specified memory object.  Ordinarily, memory managers should only provide data in
reponse to 
.B memory_object_data_request
calls from the kernel. 
The 
.B lock_value
specifies what type of access will 
.B not
be allowed
to the data range. The lock values must be one or more of the set: 
.B VM_PROT_NONE, VM_PROT_READ, VM_PROT_WRITE, VM_PROT_EXECUTE
and
.B VM_PROT_ALL
as defined in 
.B <mach/vm_prot.h>
. 

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
memory_control
The port, provided by the kernel 
in a 
.B memory_object_init
call, to which cache management requests may be issued.
.TP 15
.B
offset
An offset within a memory object, in bytes.  This must be
page aligned.
.TP 15
.B
data
Data that is being provided to the kernel. This is a pointer
to the data.
.TP 15
.B
data_count
The amount of data to be provided.  Must be an integral number
of memory object pages.
.TP 15
.B
lock_value
A protection value indicating those forms of access that should
.B not
be permitted to the specified cached data.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
This routine does not receive a reply message (and consequently
has no return value), so only message transmission errors apply.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B memory_object_data_request, memory_object_data_error, memory_object_lock_request

