.TH memory_object_data_unavailable 2 12/18/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
memory_object_data_unavailable  \-  indicates non-existent data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t memory_object_data_unavailable(memory_control,
				offset, size);
	memory_object_control_t
			memory_control;
	vm_offset_t	offset;
	vm_size_t	size;


.fi
.ft P
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B memory_object_data_unavailable
indicates that the memory object does not
have data for the given region and that the kernel should provide the
data for this range. The memory manager may use this call in three different
situations. 1) The object was created by 
.B memory_object_create
and the kernel
has not yet provided data for this range (either via a 
.B memory_object_data_initialize
or a 
.B memory_object_data_write
. In this case the kernel should supply zero-filled pages
for the object. 2) The object was created by an 
.B memory_object_data_copy
and the kernel should copy this region from the original memory object. 3) The object
is a normal user-created memory object and the kernel should supply unlocked zero-filled
pages for the range.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
memory_control
The port, provided by the kernel 
in a 
.B memory_object_init
call, to which cache management requests may be issued.
.TP 15
.B
offset
An offset within a memory object, in bytes.  This must be
page aligned.
.TP 15
.B
size
The amount of cached data (starting at 
.B offset
) to be handled. This
must be an integral multiple of the memory object page size.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
This routine does not receive a reply message (and consequently
has no return value), so only message transmission errors apply.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B memory_object_create, memory_object_data_request, memory_object_data_error

