.TH memory_object_data_initialize 2 12/22/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
memory_object_data_initialize  \-  provides initial data for memory object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t memory_object_data_initialize(memory_object,memory_control, 
				offset, data, data_count)
	memory_object_t	memory_object;
	memory_object_control_t
			memory_control;
	vm_offset_t	offset;
	pointer_t	data;
	unsigned int	data_count;



.fi
.ft P
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B memory_object_data_initialize
provides the memory manager with initial data for
a kernel-created memory object.  If the memory manager already has been
supplied data (by a previous 
.B memory_object_data_initialize
or 
.B memory_object_data_write
),
then this data should be ignored.  Otherwise, this call behaves
exactly as does 
.B memory_object_data_write
.  This call will only be made
on memory objects created by the kernel via 
.B memory_object_create

and thus will only be made to default memory managers.  This call will not
be made on objects created via 
.B memory_object_copy
.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
.B memory_object
The port that represents the memory object data, as 
supplied by the kernel in a 
.B memory_object_create
call.
.TP 15
.B
.B memory_control
The request port to which a response is 
requested.  [In the event that a memory object has been supplied 
to more than one the kernel that has made the request.]
.TP 15
.B
.B offset
The offset within a memory object to which this call refers.
This will be page aligned.
.TP 15
.B
.B data
Data which has been modified while cached in physical memory.
.TP 15
.B
.B data_count
The amount of data to be written, in bytes. This will be
an integral number of memory object pages.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
.B KERN_SUCCESS
Since this routine is called by the kernel, which does not
wait for a reply message, this value is ignored.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B memory_object_data_write, memory_object_create


