.TH memory_object_create 2 12/19/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
memory_object_create  \-  accept ownership of paging object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t memory_object_create(old_memory_object,new_memory_object,
			    new_object_size,  new_control,
			    new_name, new_page_size)
	memory_object_t	old_memory_object;
	                memory_object_t 
		        new_memory_object;
	vm_size_t	new_object_size;
	memory_object_control_t
			new_control;
	memory_object_name_t
			new_name;
	vm_size_t	new_page_size;


.fi
.ft P
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B memory_object_create
is a request that the given memory manager accept
responsibility for the given memory object created by the
kernel.
This call will only be made to the system 
.B default memory manager
.
The memory object in question initially consists of
zero-filled memory; only memory pages that are actually written
will ever be provided to the memory manager.  When processing
.B memory_object_data_request
calls, the default memory manager must
use 
.B memory_object_data_unavailable
for any pages that have not
previously been written.

No reply is expected after this call. Since this call is directed to
the default memory manager, the kernel assumes that it will be ready
to handle data requests to this object and does not need the confirmation
of a 
.B memory_object_set_attributes
call.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
.B old_memory_object
A memory object provided by the default memory
manager on which the kernel can make 
.B memory_object_create
calls.
.TP 15
.B
.B new_memory_object
A new memory object created by the kernel; see 
synopsis for further description.  Note that all port rights (including
receive rights) are included for the new memory object.
.TP 15
.B
.B new_object_size
Maximum size of the new object.
.TP 15
.B
.B new_control
A port, created by the kernel,
on which a memory manager may issue cache management requests for
the new object.
.TP 15
.B
.B new_name
A port used by the kernel to refer to the new
memory object data in response to 
.B vm_region
calls.
.TP 15
.B
.B new_page_size
The page size to be used by this kernel.
All data sizes in calls involving this kernel must be an integral multiple
of the page size.  [Note that different kernels, indicated by different
.B memory_control
s may have different page sizes.]

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
.B KERN_SUCCESS
Since this routine is called by the kernel, which does not
wait for a reply message, this value is ignored.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B memory_object_data_initialize

