.TH memory_object_init 2 12/19/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
memory_object_init  \-  initialize paging object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t memory_object_init(memory_object, memory_control,
			    memory_object_name, memory_object_page_size)
	memory_object_t	memory_object;
	memory_object_control_t
			memory_control;
	memory_object_name_t
			memory_object_name;
	vm_size_t	memory_object_page_size;


.fi
.ft P
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B memory_object_init
serves as a notification that a has been asked to map the given memory object into a task's virtual
address space.  Additionally, it provides a port on which the memory manager
may issue cache management requests, and a port which the kernel
will use to name this data region.  In the event that different
each will perform a 
.B memory_object_init
call with new request and name ports.
The virtual page size that is used by the calling kernel is included
for planning purposes.

When the memory manager is prepared to accept requests for data for
this object, it should call 
.B memory_object_set_attribute
with the
attribute 
.B ready
set. Othewise the kernel will not process requests
on this object.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
.B memory_object
The port that represents the memory object data, as 
supplied to the kernel in a 
.B vm_map
call.
.TP 15
.B
.B memory_control
The request port to which a response is 
requested.  [In the event that a memory object has been supplied 
to more than one the kernel that has made the request.]
.TP 15
.B
.B memory_object_name
A port used by the kernel to refer to the 
memory object data in reponse to 
.B vm_region
calls.
.TP 15
.B
.B memory_object_page_size
The page size to be used by this kernel.
All data sizes in calls involving this kernel must be an integral multiple
of the page size.  [Note that different kernels, indicated by different
.B memory_control
s may have different page sizes.]

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
.B KERN_SUCCESS
Since this routine is called by the kernel, which does not
wait for a reply message, this value is ignored.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B memory_object_set_attributes

