.TH memory_object_set_attributes 2 12/19/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
memory_object_set_attributes  \-  indicate how kernel should handle object
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t memory_object_set_attributes(memory_control,
				object_ready, may_cache_object,
				copy_strategy)
	memory_object_control_t
			memory_control;
	boolean_t	object_ready;
	boolean_t	may_cache_object;
	memory_object_copy_strategy_t
			copy_strategy;


.fi
.ft P
.SH DESCRIPTION

.B memory_object_set_attributes
controls how the the memory object.  The kernel will only make data or unlock requests when
the ready attribute is asserted.  If the caching attribute is asserted, the
kernel is permitted (and encouraged) to maintain
cached data for this memory object even after no virtual address space
contains this data.

There are three possible caching strategies: 
.B MEMORY_OBJECT_COPY_NONE
which specifies that nothing special should be done when data in the
object is copied; 
.B MEMORY_OBJECT_COPY_CALL
which specifies that the
memory manager should be notified via a 
.B memory_object_copy
call before
any part of the object is copied; and 
.B MEMORY_OBJECT_COPY_DELAY
which
guarantees that the memory manager does not externally modify the data
so that the kernel can use its normal copy-on-write algorithms.  
.B MEMORY_OBJECT_COPY_DELAY
is the strategy most commonly used.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
memory_control
The port, provided by the kernel 
in a 
.B memory_object_init
call, to which cache management requests may be issued.
.TP 15
.B
object_ready
When set, the kernel may issue new data and unlock requests on the
associated memory object.
.TP 15
.B
may_cache_object
If set, the kernel may keep data 
associated with this
memory object, even after virtual memory references to it are gone.
.TP 15
.B
copy_strategy
How the kernel should copy regions of the associated
memory object.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
This routine does not receive a reply message (and consequently
has no return value), so only message transmission errors apply.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B memory_object_init, memory_object_copy, memory_object_attributes

