.TH msg_rpc 2 1/13/87
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
msg_rpc  \-  hybrid call of message send and message receive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach/message.h>
#include <mach/port.h>
.nf
.ft B
msg_return_t msg_rpc(header, option, rcv_size,
			send_timeout, rcv_timeout)
	msg_header_t	*header;	/* in/out */
	msg_option_t	option;
	msg_size_t	rcv_size;
	msg_timeout_t	send_timeout;
	msg_timeout_t	rcv_timeout;


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
header
Address of a message buffer which will be used for both 
.B msg_send
and
.B msg_receive.
This buffer contains a message header followed by the
data for the message to be sent.  The 
.B msg_remote_port
field specifies the
port to which the message is to be sent.  The 
.B msg_local_port
field
specifies the port on which a message is then to be received;
if this port is the special value 
.B PORT_DEFAULT
, it will
be replaced by the value 
.B PORT_NULL
for the purposes of the
.B msg_send
operation.
.TP 15
.B
option
A union of the 
.B option
parameters for the component operations.
(see 
.B msg_send
and 
.B msg_receive
)
.TP 15
.B
rcv_size
The maximum size allowed for the received message; this
must be less than or equal to the size of the message buffer.
The 
.B msg_size
field in the header specifies the
size of the message to be sent.
.TP 15
.B
send_timeout;rcv_timeout
The timeout values to be applied to the 
component operations. These are only used if the options 
.B SEND_TIMEOUT
and/or 
.B RCV_TIMEOUT
are specified.  

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B msg_rpc
is a hybrid call which performs a
.B msg_send
followed by a 
.B msg_receive
, using the
same message buffer.


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
RPC_SUCCESS
message was successfully sent and a reply was
recived.
.TP 25
FAILURES
are the same as those for 
.B msg_send
and 
.B msg_receive
;
any error during the 
.B msg_send
portion will terminate the call.

.SH FILES
/usr/mach/include/mach/message.h
/usr/mach/include/mach/port.h
/usr/mach/include/mach/notify.h

.SH SEE ALSO
.B msg_receive, msg_send

