.TH processor_control 2 8/13/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
processor_control  \-  do something to a processor
processor_exit  \-  exit a processor
processor_start  \-  start a processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t processor_start(processor)
	processor_t		processor;


.fi
.ft P
.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t processor_exit(processor)
	processor_t		processor;


.fi
.ft P
.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t processor_control(processor, cmd, count)
	processor_t		processor;
	int			*cmd;  /* array of ints */
	int			count; 


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
.B processor
Specifies the processor.
.TP 15
.B
.B cmd
Contains the command to be applied to the processor.
.TP 15
.B
.B count
Specifies the length of the command as a number of ints.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Some multiprocessors may allow privileged software to control processors.
The
.B processor_start, processor_exit
, and 
.B processor_control
operations implement this.  The interpretation of the command in
.B cmd
is machine dependent.  A newly started processor is assigned to the
default processor set.  An exited processor is removed from the
processor set to which it was assigned and ceases to be active.


.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The operation was performed.
.TP 25
KERN_FAILURE
The operation was not performed.  A likely reason is that it
is not supported on this processor.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B processor
is not a processor.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ADDRESS
.B data
points to inaccessible memory.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B processor_info, host_processors

.SH BUGS
Availability limited.
All of these operations are machine-dependent.  They may do nothing.
The ability to restart an exited processor is also machine-dependent.

