.TH processor_info 2 8/13/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
processor_info   \-   gets information about processor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
/* the definition of processor_info_t from mach.h - sys/processor_info.h is */

typedef	int	*processor_info_t;	/* variable length array of int */

/* one interpretation of info is */

   struct processor_basic_info {
	cpu_type_t	cpu_type;	/* cpu type */
	cpu_subtype_t	cpu_subtype;	/* cpu subtype */
	boolean_t	running;	/* is processor running? */
	int		slot_num;	/* slot number */
	boolean_t	is_master;	/* is this the master processor */
   };
typedef struct processor_basic_info		*processor_basic_info_t;



kern_return_t
processor_info(processor, flavor, host, processor_info, processor_infoCnt)
	processor_t 		processor;
	int 			flavor;
	host_t			*host;
	processor_info_t 	processor_info;	/* in and out */
	unsigned int 		*processor_infoCnt;	/* in and out */


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
processor
The processor for which information is to be obtained
.TP 15
.B
flavor
The type of information that is wanted.  Currently only
.B PROCESSOR_BASIC_INFO
is implemented.
.TP 15
.B
host
The host on which the processor resides.  This is the non-privileged
host port.
.TP 15
.B
processor_info
Information about the processor specified by 
.B processor.
.TP 15
.B
processor_infoCnt
Size of the info structure. Should be
.B PROCESSOR_BASIC_INFO_COUNT
for flavor 
.B PROCESSOR_BASIC_INFO.

.SH DESCRIPTION

Returns the selected information array for a processor, as specified
by 
.B flavor.

.B processor_info
is an array of integers that is supplied
by the caller, and filled with specified information. 
.B processor_infoCnt
is supplied as the maximum number of integers in 
.B processor_info.
On return,
it contains the actual number of integers in  
.B processor_info.

Basic information is defined by 
.B PROCESSOR_BASIC_INFO.
The size of this information is defined by  
.B PROCESSOR_BASIC_INFO_COUNT.
Machines which require more configuration information beyond the slot
number are expected to define additional (machine-dependent) flavors.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The call succeeded.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B processor
is not a processor or
.B flavor
is not recognized.
.TP 25
MIG_ARRAY_TOO_LARGE
Returned info array is too large for
.B processor_info.

.B processor_info
is filled as much as possible.
.B processor_infoCnt
is set to the number of elements that would
be returned if there were enough room.

.SH BUGS
Availability limited.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B processor_start, processor_exit, processor_control, host_processors
.B host_info

