.TH thread_special_ports 2 1/20/88
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
thread_get_special_port  \-  returns a special port of a thread
thread_set_special_port  \-  set a special port of a thread
thread_self  \-  returns calling thread's kernel port
thread_reply  \-  returns calling thread's reply port
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t thread_get_special_port(thread, which_port, special_port)
	thread_t 	thread;
	int 		which_port;
	port_t 		*special_port;


.fi
.ft P
.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t thread_set_special_port(thread, which_port, special_port)
	thread_t 	thread;
	int 		which_port;
	port_t 		special_port;


.fi
.ft P
.nf
.ft B
thread_t thread_self()


.fi
.ft P
.nf
.ft B
port_t thread_reply()


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
thread
The thread for which to get the port
.TP 15
.B
which_port
the port that is requested. Is one of 
.B THREAD_REPLY_PORT
or 
.B THREAD_EXCEPTION_PORT
.
.TP 15
.B
special_port
the value of the port that is being requested or
being set.

.SH DESCRIPTION

.B get_special_port
returns send rights to one of a set of special ports 
for the thread specified by 
.B thread
. In the case of getting the thread's
own 
.B thread_reply_port
, receive and ownership rights are also given to the
thread.

.B set_special_port
sets one of a set of special ports for the thread specified
by 
.B thread
. 

.B thread_self
returns the port to which kernel calls for the 
currently executing thread should be directed.
Currently, 
.B thread_self
returns the 
.B thread kernel port
which
is a port for which the kernel has receive rights
and which it uses to identify a thread. In the future it may be
possible for one thread to interpose a port as another's thread's
kernel port. At that time, 
.B thread_self
will still return the
port to which the executing thread should direct kernel calls,
but it may  no longer be a port on which the kernel has receive rights.

If one thread, the controller,  has send access to the kernel port of 
another thread, the subject thread, then the controller thread can perform
kernel
operations for the subject thread. Normally only the thread itself and its
parent task will have access to
the thread kernel port, but any thread may pass rights to its kernel
port to any other thread.

.B thread_reply
returns receive, ownership and send rights to the 
.B reply port

of the calling thread. The 
reply port is a port to which the thread has receive
rights. It is used to receive any initialization messages
and as a reply port for early remote procedure calls.

The following macros to call 
.B thread_get/set_special_port
for a specific
port are defined in 
.B <mach/thread_special_ports.h>
: 
.B thread_get_reply_port
,
.B thread_set_reply_port
, 
.B thread_get_exception_port
and 
.B thread_set_exception_port
.

A thread also has access to its task's special ports.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
The port was returned or set.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ARGUMENT
.B thread
is not a thread or 
.B which_port
is an invalid port selector.

.SH SEE ALSO
.B task_special_ports,thread_create

.SH BUGS
.B THREAD_KERNEL_PORT
may be added to the set of ports that
.B thread_set_special_port
accepts.

