.TH vm_protect 2 9/19/86
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
vm_protect  \-  change protection of task's memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.ft B
#include <mach.h>

.nf
.ft B
kern_return_t vm_protect(target_task, address, size, set_maximum,
				new_protection)
	vm_task_t	target_task;
	vm_address_t	address;
	vm_size_t	size;
	boolean_t	set_maximum;
	vm_prot_t	new_protection;


.fi
.ft P
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B
target_task
Task whose virtual memory is to be affected.
.TP 15
.B
address
Starting address (will be rounded down to a
page boundary).
.TP 15
.B
size
Size in bytes of the region for which protection
is to change (will be rounded up to give a page boundary).
.TP 15
.B
set_maximum
If set, make the protection change apply to the 
maximum protection associated with this address range;
otherwise, the current protection on this
range is changed.  If the maximum protection is reduced below the
current protection, both will be changed to reflect the new maximum.
.TP 15
.B
new_protection
A new protection value for this region; a set of:
.B VM_PROT_READ
, 
.B VM_PROT_WRITE
,
.B VM_PROT_EXECUTE
.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vm_protect
sets the virtual memory access privileges for a
range of allocated addresses in a task's virtual address space.
The protection argument describes a combination of read, write,
and execute accesses that should be 
.B permitted
.

The enforcement of virtual memory protection is machine-dependent.
Some combinations of access rights may not be supported.  In
particular, the kernel interface allows any of the following:
write permission may imply read permission;
read permission may imply execute permission; or,
execute permission may imply read permission.

All architectures must support the following access combinations:
all (read, write, and execute) access;
write-protected (read and execute) access;
no access.

For the Vax, RT/PC, and Sun3, all three of the reductions stated above apply.
That is:  
.B VM_PROT_WRITE
allows read, execute and write access,
.B VM_PROT_READ
or 
.B VM_PROT_EXECUTE
allows read and execute access, but
not write access.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
KERN_SUCCESS
Memory protected.
.TP 25
KERN_PROTECTION_FAILURE
An attempt was made to increase the current 
or maximum protection beyond the existing maximum protection value.
.TP 25
KERN_INVALID_ADDRESS
Illegal or non-allocated address specified.

