	  GNU Emacs availability information, 13 March 1988
	  Copyright (C) 1986, 1987, 1988 Richard M. Stallman

   Permission is granted to anyone to make or distribute
   verbatim copies of this document provided that the
   copyright notice and this permission notice are preserved.

	The prices on the order form below EXPIRE in June 1989

GNU Emacs is legally owned by the Free Software Foundation, but we
regard the foundation actually as its custodian on behalf of the
public, since all software ought to be the common property of mankind.

The foundation permits everyone to have and run copies of GNU Emacs,
at no charge, and to redistribute copies under certain conditions
which are designed to make sure that that all modified versions of GNU
Emacs remain as free as the versions we distribute.  These conditions
are stated in the document "GNU Emacs General Public License", a copy
of which is required to be distributed with every copy of GNU Emacs.
It is usually in a file named COPYING in the same directory as this
file.

If you do not know anyone to get a copy of GNU Emacs from, you can
order a tape from the Free Software Foundation.  We distribute Emacs
version 18 on 1600bpi industry standard mag tape in tar format.  We
will also ship it on 1/4" Sun cartridge tapes in tar format and on 1600bpi
magtape in VMS interchange format.  We also distribute nicely typeset
copies of the Emacs manual.  See the order form at the end of this
file.

If you have Internet access, you can copy the latest Emacs
distribution from host prep.ai.mit.edu.  There are several ways to do
this; see the file `FTP' in the same directory as this file for more
information.  Even better, get the latest version of the file from
`/u2/emacs/etc/FTP' on prep.ai.mit.edu for the most current
arrangements.  It may also be possible to copy Emacs via uucp; the
file `FTP' contains information on that too.

Emacs has been run on both Berkeley Unix and System V Unix, on a
variety of types of cpu.  It also works on VMS and on Apollo
computers, though with some deficiencies that reflect problems in
these operating systems.  See the file MACHINES in this directory for
a full list of machines that GNU Emacs has been tested on, with
machine-specific installation notes and warnings.

Note that there is significant variation between Unix systems
supposedly running the same version of Unix; it is possible that what
works in GNU Emacs for me does not work on your system due to such an
incompatibility.  Since I must avoid reading Unix source code, I
cannot even guess what such problems may exist.

GNU Emacs is distributed with no warranty (see the General Public
License for full details), and neither I nor the Free Software
Foundation promises any kind of support or assistance to users.  The
foundation keeps a list of people who are willing to offer support and
assistance for hire.  It is usually in a file named SERVICE in the
same directory as this file.

However, I plan to continue to improve GNU Emacs and keep it reliable,
so please send me any complaints and suggestions you have.  I will
probably fix anything that is clearly (to me) a malfunction.  I may
make an improvement if I consider it worth the effort, but you should
not be surprised if I don't think I can spare time for it.  I hope to
keep Emacs stable now, and avoid putting much time into it, so I can
work on other parts of the GNU system.

If you are on the Internet, report bugs to
bug-gnu-emacs@prep.ai.mit.edu; on Usenet, use the address
...!ucbvax!bug-gnu-emacs%prep.ai.mit.edu.  Otherwise, phone the
foundation at +1 617 876-3296, or write to the address listed below.

If you are a computer manufacturer, I encourage you to ship a copy of
GNU Emacs with every computer you deliver.  The same copying
permission terms apply to computer manufacturers as to everyone else.
You should consider making a donation to help support the GNU project;
if you estimate what it would cost to distribute some commercial
product and divide it by five, that is a good amount.

If you like GNU Emacs, please express your satisfaction with a
donation: send me or the Foundation what you feel Emacs has been worth
to you.  If you are glad that I developed GNU Emacs and distribute it
as freeware, rather than following the obstructive and antisocial
practices typical of software developers, reward me for doing so!

Your donations will help to support the development of more useful
software to be distributed on the same basis as GNU Emacs.  Eventually
we will have a complete imitation of the Unix operating system, called
GNU (Gnu's Not Unix), which will run Unix user programs.  For more
information on GNU, see the file GNU in this directory.


			Richard M Stallman
			Chief GNUisance,
			President of the Free Software Foundation

		Free Software Foundation Order Form
			   17 January 1989

	   This form is effective January 1989--June 1989.

All software and publications are distributed with permission to
copy and redistribute.

Quantity  Price  Item

________ $150	GNU Emacs and other software, for Unix systems,
		on 1600bpi reel-to-reel 9-track tape in tar format.
		The tape also contains:
		* MIT Scheme (a dialect of Lisp)
		* T, Yale's implementation of Scheme
		* Bison (a free, compatible replacement for yacc)
		* Hack (a rogue-like game)
		* GNU Chess (a chess playing program with an interface to X).
		* GDB (the GNU source-level C debugger)
		* The X window system (a window system for bitmap
		  displays written at MIT) (version 10r4)
							
________ $150	GNU Beta Test tape, for Unix systems, on tape as in last item.
		The tape includes:
		* GCC (the GNU C Compiler)
		* G++ (the C++ front end to GCC)
		* Bison (a free, compatible replacement for yacc)
		* Flex (Vern Paxson fast rewrite of lex)
		* Gnostscript (a Postscript interpreter)
		* Gawk (the GNU implementation of the AWK programming language)
		* Gas (the GNU Assembler)
		* Gnuplot (an interactive mathematical plotting program)
		* GNU object file utilities (ar, ld, make, gprof, size, nm,
		  strip, ranlib, et al.)
		* other GNU utilities (diff, grep, tar, et al.)
		* the freed files from the 4.3BSD-Tahoe distribution

________ $150	MIT X Window System X11R3, for Unix systems,
		on tape as in last item.

________ $175   GNU Emacs and other software, for Suns, as in the first item,
		on DC300XLP 1/4inch cartridge tape, in QIC-24 format.

________ $175	GNU Beta Test tape, for Suns, as in the second item,
                on tape as in last item.

________ $175	MIT X Window System X11R3, as in the third item,
                on tape as in last item.

________ $150	GNU Emacs source code and binaries, for VMS, on 1600
		bpi reel-to-reel 9-track tape in VMS backup format.

________ $150	GNU C compiler source code and binaries, for VMS, on
		tape as in last item.  Includes Bison and GAS.

________  $15	GNU Emacs manual, ~300 pages.  The manual is phototypeset,
		offset printed, and spiral bound; it includes a reference card.

Thus, a 1600 bpi tape and one Emacs manual come to $165.

________  $60	Box of six GNU Emacs manuals, each with reference card.

________   $1	One GNU Emacs reference card, without the manual.

________   $5   Packet of ten GNU Emacs reference cards.

________  $10   GDB Manual, ~70 pages, side stapled.

________  $10	Texinfo Manual, ~100 pages, side stapled.  Texinfo is GNU's
		structured documentation system, included with GNU Emacs
		This manual describes how to write Texinfo documents.

________  $10   Termcap Manual, ~60 pages, side stapled.  Documents the
		termcap library and GNU's extensions to it.  The GNU termcap
		library is included with GNU Emacs.

________  $10   Bison Manual, ~70 pages, side stapled.

________  $10   Gawk Manual, ~100 pages, side stapled.

________  $10   Make Manual, ~100 pages, side stapled.

Prices and contents of tapes are subject to change without notice.
This form is effective January 1989--June 1989.

________   If ordering from Massachusetts:} add 5% sales tax.

________   If outside of North America and Hawaii:  for shipping costs,
	   please add $60 for each box of Emacs manuals; for tapes or
	   unboxed manuals, please add $15, and then add $15 more for
	   each tape or unboxed manual. 

________   Optional tax deductible donation.


________   Total paid

Orders are filled upon receipt of check or money order.  We do not have
the staff to handle the billing of unpaid orders.  Please help keep
our lives simple by including your payment with your order.

Make checks payable to Free Software Foundation.  Mail orders to:

   Free Software Foundation, Inc.
   675 Mass Ave
   Cambridge, MA 02139

All software from the Free Software Foundation is provided on an "as
is" basis, with no warranty of any kind.
