.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH MrmFetchColorLiteral 3X
.SH NAME
\fBMrmFetchColorLiteral\fP \- Fetches a named color literal from a UID file.
.iX "MrmFetchColorLiteral"
.iX "uil functions" "MrmFetchColorLiteral"
.iX "uid file"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>
.br
.NX R "MRM function" "MrmFetchColorLiteral"
.NX R "MrmFetchColorLiteral" "definition"
.BI "int MrmFetchColorLiteral(" "hierarchy_id" ","
.IB "index" ","
.IB "display" ","
.IB "colormap_id" ","
.IB "pixel" ")"
.in +5n
.br
.BI "MrmHierarchy hierarchy_id;
.br
.BI "String " "index" ";"
.br
.BI "Display *" "display" ";"
.br
.BI "Colormap " "colormap_id" ";"
.br
.BI "Pixel *" "pixel" ";"
.in -5n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fBMrmFetchColorLiteral\fP
function
.NX R "MrmFetchColorLiteral" "description"
fetches a named color literal from a UID file, and converts the
color literal to a pixel color value.
.IP \fIhierarchy_id\fP 1.5i
Specifies the ID of the UID hierarchy that contains the
specified literal. 
The
\fIhierarchy_id\fP
was returned in a previous call to
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP.
.IP \fIindex\fP 1.5i
Specifies the UIL name of the color literal to fetch. 
You must define this name in UIL as an exported value.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1.5i
Specifies the display used for the pixmap.
The
\fIdisplay\fP 
argument specifies the connection to the X server. 
For more information on the
\fBDisplay\fP structure, see the Xlib function
\fBXOpenDisplay\fP.
.IP \fIcolormap_id\fP 1.5i
Specifies the ID of the color map.
If NULL, the default color map is used. 
.IP \fIpixel\fP 1.5i
Returns the ID of the color literal.
.br
.ne 9
.SH RETURN VALUE
.NX R "MrmSUCCESS"
.NX R "MrmBAD_HIERARCHY"
.NX R "MrmNOT_FOUND"
.NX R "MrmFAILURE"
This function returns one of these status return constants: 
.IP \fBMrmSUCCESS\fP 1.7i
The function executed successfully.
.IP \fBMrmBAD_HIERARCHY\fP
The hierarchy ID was invalid.
.IP \fBMrmNOT_FOUND\fP
The color literal was not found in the UIL file.
.IP \fBMrmFAILURE\fP
The function failed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBMrmFetchIconLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fBMrmFetchLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fBXOpenDisplay(3X)\fP
