.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH MrmOpenHierarchy 3X
.SH NAME
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP \- Allocates a hierarchy ID and 
opens all the UID files in the
hierarchy.
.iX "MrmOpenHierarchy"
.iX "uil functions" "MrmOpenHierarchy"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>
.br
.NX R "MRM function" "MrmOpenHierarchy"
.NX R "MrmOpenHierarchy" "definition"
.BI "Cardinal MrmOpenHierarchy(" "num_files" ","
.IB "file_names_list" ","
.br
.\".in +2n
.IB "ancillary_structures_list" ","
.IB "hierarchy_id" ")"
.\".in -2n
.in +5n
.br
.BI "MrmCount " "num_files" ";"
.br
.BI "String " "file_names_list" "[];"
.br
.BI "MrmOsOpenParamPtr *" "ancillary_structures_list" ";"
.br
.BI "MrmHierarchy *" "hierarchy_id" ";"
.in -5n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP
function 
.NX R "MrmOpenHierarchy" "description"
allows the user to specify the list of UID files that
MRM searches in subsequent fetch operations.
All subsequent fetch operations return the first occurrence of the
named item encountered while traversing the UID hierarchy from
the first list element (UID file specification) to the last list
element.
This function also
allocates a hierarchy ID and opens all the UID files in the
hierarchy. 
It initializes the optimized search lists in the hierarchy.
If
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP
encounters any errors during its execution, any files that were opened
are closed.
.PP
The application must call \fBXtAppInitialize\fP before calling
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP.
.IP \fInum_files\fP 1.7i
Specifies the number of files in the name list.
.IP \fIfile_names_list\fP 1.7i
Specifies an array of character strings that identify 
the UID files.
.IP \fIancillary_structures_list\fP 1.7i
A list of operating-system-dependent ancillary structures corresponding
to such things as filenames, clobber flag, and so forth.
This argument should be NULL for most operations.
If you need to reference this structure,
see the definition of
\fBMrmOsOpenParamPtr\fP
in
\fBMrmPublic.h\fP
for more information.
.IP \fIhierarchy_id\fP 1.7i
Returns the search hierarchy ID.
The search hierarchy ID identifies the list of UID files that
MRM searches (in order) when performing subsequent
fetch calls.
.PP
Each UID file string in \fIfile_names_list\fP can specify either a full
pathname or a filename.
If a UID file string has a leading slash (/), it specifies a full
pathname, and MRM opens the file as specified.
Otherwise, the UID file string specifies a filename.
In this case MRM looks for the file along a search path specified by the
\fBUIDPATH\fP environment variable or by a default search path, which
varies depending on whether or not the \fBXAPPLRESDIR\fP environment
variable is set.
The filename is substituted for each occurrence of %U in the search
path.
.PP
The \fBUIDPATH\fP environment variable specifies a search path and
naming conventions associated with UID files.
It can contain the substitution field %U, where the UID file string from
the \fIfile_names_list\fP argument to \fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP is
substituted for %U.
It can also contain the substitution fields accepted by
\fBXtResolvePathname\fP.
For example, the following \fBUIDPATH\fP value and 
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP 
call cause MRM to open two separate UID files:
.PP
.nf
 UIDPATH=/uidlib/%L/%U.uid:/uidlib/%U/%L
  static char *uid_files[] = {"/usr/users/me/test.uid", "test2"};
   MrmHierarchy  *Hierarchy_id;
   MrmOpenHierarchy((MrmCount)2,uid_files, NULL, Hierarchy_id)
.fi
.PP
MRM opens the first file, \fB/usr/users/me/test.uid\fP, as specified in
the \fIfile_names_list\fP argument to \fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP, because
the UID file string in the \fIfile_names_list\fP argument specifies a
full pathname.
MRM looks for the second file, 
.ne 6
\fBtest2\fP,
first as
\fB/uidlib/%L/test2.uid\fP
and second as
\fB/uidlib/test2/%L\fP,
where the current setting of the \fBxnlLanguage\fP resource or the
\fBLANG\fP environment variable is substituted for %L.
.PP
After
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP
opens the UID hierarchy, you should not delete or modify the
UID files until you close the UID hierarchy by calling
\fBMrmCloseHierarchy\fP.
.PP
If \fBUIDPATH\fP is not set but the environment variable
\fBXAPPLRESDIR\fP is set, MRM searches the following pathnames:
.ta 1i
\fB
	%U
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%L/uid/%N/%U
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%l/uid/%N/%U
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/uid/%N/%U
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%L/uid/%U
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%l/uid/%U
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/uid/%U
.br
	$HOME/uid/%U
.br
	$HOME/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/uid/%N/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/uid/%N/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/uid/%N/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/uid/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/uid/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/uid/%U
.br
	/usr/include/X11/uid/%U
.fi
\fP
.PP
If neither \fBUIDPATH\fP nor \fBXAPPLRESDIR\fP is set, MRM searches the
following pathnames:
.ta 1i
\fB
	%U
.br
	$HOME/%L/uid/%N/%U
.br
	$HOME/%l/uid/%N/%U
.br
	$HOME/uid/%N/%U
.br
	$HOME/%L/uid/%U
.br
	$HOME/%l/uid/%U
.br
	$HOME/uid/%U
.br
	$HOME/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/uid/%N/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/uid/%N/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/uid/%N/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/uid/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/uid/%U
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/uid/%U
.br
	/usr/include/X11/uid/%U
.fi
\fP
.PP
The following substitutions are used in these paths:
.IP "\fB%U\fP" 0.5i
The UID file string, from the \fIfile_names_list\fP argument.
.IP "\fB%N\fP" 0.5i
The class name of the application.
.IP "\fB%L\fP" 0.5i
The value of the \fBxnlLanguage\fP resource or the \fBLANG\fP
environment variable.
.IP "\fB%l\fP" 0.5i
The language component of the \fBxnlLanguage\fP resource or the
\fBLANG\fP environment variable.
.br
.ne 10
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns one of these status return constants: 
.NX R "MrmSUCCESS"
.NX R "MrmNOT_FOUND"
.NX R "MrmFAILURE"
.IP \fBMrmSUCCESS\fP 2.0i
The function executed successfully.
.IP \fBMrmNOT_FOUND\fP
File not found.
.IP \fBMrmFAILURE\fP
The function failed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBMrmCloseHierarchy(3X)\fP
