.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmActivateProtocol 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmActivateProtocol \(em A VendorShell function that activates a
protocol.\fP
.iX "XmActivateProtocol"
.iX "VendorShell functions" "XmActivateProtocol"
.iX "protocols"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.br
\&#include <X11/Protocols.h>
.sp 1
void XmActivateProtocol (\fIshell, property, protocol\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIshell\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fIproperty\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fIprotocol\fP;
.sp 1
void XmActivateWMProtocol (\fIshell, protocol\fP)
.br
	Widget	\fIshell\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fIprotocol\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmActivateProtocol\fP activates a protocol.  It
updates the handlers and the \fIproperty\fP if
the \fIshell\fP is realized.  It is sometimes useful to allow
a protocol's state information (callback lists, and so on) to persist, even though
the client may choose to temporarily resign from the interaction.  This is
supported by allowing a \fIprotocol\fP to be in one of two states:  active or
inactive.  If the \fIprotocol\fP is active and the \fIshell\fP is realized,
.ne 5
the \fIproperty\fP contains the \fIprotocol\fP \fBAtom\fP.  
If the \fIprotocol\fP is inactive, the \fBAtom\fP is not present in
the \fIproperty\fP.
.PP
\fBXmActivateWMProtocol\fP is a convenience interface.  
It calls \fBXmActivateProtocol\fP 
with the property value set to the atom returned by
interning \fBWM_PROTOCOLS\fP.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIshell\fP" .75i
Specifies the widget with which the protocol property is associated.
.IP "\fIproperty\fP" .75i
Specifies the protocol property.
.IP "\fIprotocol\fP" .75i
Specifies the protocol \fBAtom\fP (or an \fBint\fR type cast to \fBAtom\fP).
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of VendorShell and its associated resources, see
\fBVendorShell(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fBVendorShell(3X)\fP, \fBXmActivateWMProtocol(3X)\fP
and \fBXmInternAtom(3X)\fP.
.ad
.sp 1
