.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateWarningDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fB
XmCreateWarningDialog \(em a MessageBox WarningDialog
convenience creation function.\fP
.iX "XmCreateWarningDialog"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateWarningDialog"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/MessageB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCreateWarningDialog (\fIparent, name, arglist, argcount\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCreateWarningDialog\fP is a convenience creation function that
creates a DialogShell and an unmanaged MessageBox child of the DialogShell.
A WarningDialog warns users of action consequences and gives them
a choice of resolutions.
It includes a symbol, a message, and three buttons.  
The default symbol is an exclamation point.  The default button labels are
\fBOK\fP, \fBCancel\fP, and \fBHelp\fP.
.PP
Use \fBXtManageChild\fP to pop up the WarningDialog (passing the
MessageBox as the widget parameter);
use \fBXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" .75i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.PP
For a complete definition of MessageBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the MessageBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
