.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateMessageDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fB
XmCreateMessageDialog \(em the MessageBox MessageDialog convenience 
creation function.\fP
.iX "XmCreateMessageDialog"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateMessageDialog"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/MessageB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCreateMessageDialog (\fIparent, name, arglist, argcount\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCreateMessageDialog\fP is a convenience creation function that creates
a DialogShell and an unmanaged MessageBox child of the DialogShell.
A MessageDialog is used for common interaction tasks, which include giving
information, asking questions, and reporting errors.
It includes a symbol, a message, and three buttons.  
By default, there is no symbol.  The default button labels are
\fBOK\fP, \fBCancel\fP, and \fBHelp\fP.  
.PP
Use \fBXtManageChild\fP to pop up the MessageDialog (passing the MessageBox
as the widget parameter); use \fBXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" .75i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.PP
For a complete definition of MessageBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the MessageBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
