.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCvtStringToUnitType 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmCvtStringToUnitType \(em a function that converts a string
to a unit-type value.\fP
.iX "XmCvtStringToUnitType"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
void XmCvtStringToUnitType (\fIargs, num_args, from_val, to_val\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	XrmValuePtr	\fIargs\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fI* num_args\fP;
.br
	XrmValue	\fI* from_val\fP;
.br
	XrmValue	\fI* to_val\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCvtStringToUnitType\fP converts a string to a unit type.  Refer to 
the man pages for \fBXmGadget\fP, \fBXmManager\fP, or \fBXmPrimitive\fP for a 
description of the valid unit types.
.PP
.ne 3i
Install this function as a resource converter using the Xt Intrinsics function
\fBXtAddConverter\fP, rather than calling it directly.  
The following code segment
shows how to install the converter into the toolkit's converter cache that
will allow the resource \fBXmNunitType\fP to be specified through a resource
file.
.sp 1
.IP 
\f(CWXtAddConverter (XmRString, XmRUnitType, XmCvtStringToUnitType, NULL, 0);\fP
.sp 1
.PP
This function should be installed only by applications that need to 
allow the unit type resource to be specified through a resource file.  
It must be installed before any widget that is to have
its \fBXmNunitType\fP resource set by data in a resource file is created.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIargs\fP" .75i
Specifies a list of additional \fBXrmValue\fP arguments to the converter
if additional context is needed to perform the conversion.  For example,
the string-to-font converter needs the widget's screen and the 
string-to-pixel converter needs the widget's screen and color map.  This
argument is often NULL.
.IP "\fInum_args\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of additional \fBXrmValue\fP arguments.  This argument
is often zero.
.IP "\fIfrom_val\fP" .75i
Specifies the value to convert
.IP "\fIto_val\fP" .75i
Specifies the descriptor to use to return the converted value
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmGadget(3X)\fP, \fBXmManager(3X)\fP, and \fBXmPrimitive(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
