.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmFileSelectionDoSearch 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmFileSelectionDoSearch \(em a FileSelectionBox function that
initiates a directory search.\fP
.iX "XmFileSelectionDoSearch"
.iX "FileSelectionBox functions" "XmFileSelectionDoSearch"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/FileSB.h>
.sp 1
void XmFileSelectionDoSearch (\fIwidget, dirmask\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	XmString	\fIdirmask\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmFileSelectionDoSearch\fP initiates a directory and file search in a
FileSelectionBox widget.
For a description of the actions that the FileSelectionBox takes when
doing a search, see \fBXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the FileSelectionBox widget ID.
.IP "\fIdirmask\fP" .75i
Specifies the directory mask used in determining the directories and
files displayed in the FileSelectionBox lists.
This value is used as the \fImask\fP member of the input data
\fBXmFileSelectionBoxCallbackStruct\fP structure passed to the
FileSelectionBox's \fBXmNqualifySearchDataProc\fP.
The \fIdir\fP and \fIpattern\fP members of that structure are NULL.
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of FileSelectionBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
