.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmFontListGetNextFont 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmFontListGetNextFont \(em a compound string function that allows 
applications to access the fonts and character sets in a font list.\fP
.iX "XmFontListGetNextFont"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmFontListGetNextFont"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Boolean XmFontListGetNextFont (\fIcontext, charset, font\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.75i
.br
	XmFontContext	\fIcontext\fP;
.br
	XmStringCharSet	\fI* charset\fP;
.br
	XFontStruct	\fI** font\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmFontListGetNextFont\fP 
accesses the character set and font for the next entry of the fontlist.
The application first uses the \fBXmFontListInitFontContext\fP routine
to create a font list context.
The application then calls \fBXmFontListGetNextFont\fP repeatedly with
the same context.
Each succeeding call accesses the next element of the fontlist.
When finished, the application calls \fBXmFontListFreeFontContext\fP to
free the allocated font list context.
.PP
This routine allocates memory for the character set string that must be
freed by the application.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIcontext\fP" .75i 
Specifies the font list context
.IP "\fIcharset\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to a character set string; the routine returns the
character set for the current font list element
.IP "\fIfont\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to a pointer to a font structure; the routine
returns the font for the current font list element
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the returned values are valid; otherwise, returns False.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmFontListFreeFontContext(3X)\fP and
\fBXmFontListInitFontContext(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
