.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmFontListCreate 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmFontListCreate \(em a compound string function that creates a font list.\fP
.iX "XmFontListCreate"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmFontListCreate"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
XmFontList XmFontListCreate (\fIfont, charset\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.75i
	XFontStruct	\fI* font\fP;
.br
	XmStringCharSet	\fIcharset\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmFontListCreate\fP creates a new font list with a single element specified
by the provided font and character set.  It also allocates the space for
the font list.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIfont\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to a font structure for which the new font list is
generated.  This is the structure returned by the XLib \fBXLoadQueryFont\fP
function.
.br
.ne 15
.IP "\fIcharset\fP" .75i
Specifies the character set identifier for the font.
This can be \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, but this value does not
comply with the AES, and it may be removed in future versions of Motif.
If the value 
.ne 4
is \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, the routine derives the
character set from the current language environment.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns NULL if
\fIfont\fP
or
\fIcharset\fP
is NULL; otherwise, returns a new font list.
.sp 1
.na
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fBXmFontListAdd(3X)\fP,
\fBXmFontListCopy(3X)\fP,
\fBXmFontListFree(3X)\fP,
\fBXmFontListFreeFontContext(3X)\fP,
\fBXmFontListGetNextFont(3X)\fP,
\fBXmFontListInitFontContext(3X)\fP,
\fBXmString(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringBaseline(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringByteCompare(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringCompare(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringConcat(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringCopy(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringCreateLtoR(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringCreateSimple(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringDirectionCreate(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringDraw(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringDrawImage(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringDrawUnderline(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringEmpty(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringExtent(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringFree(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringFreeContext(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringGetLtoR(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringGetNextComponent(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringGetNextSegment(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringHasSubstring(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringHeight(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringInitContext(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringLength(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringLineCount(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringNConcat(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringNCopy(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringPeekNextComponent(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringSegmentCreate(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringSeparatorCreate(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringTable(3X)\fP, and
\fBXmStringWidth(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.ad
