.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmListAddItems 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmListAddItems \(em a List function that adds items to the list.\fP
.iX "XmListAddItems"
.iX "List functions" "XmListAddItems"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp 1
void XmListAddItems (\fIwidget, items, item_count, position\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	XmString	*\fIitems\fP;
.br
	int	\fIitem_count\fP;
.br
	int	\fIposition\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmListAddItems\fP adds the specified items to the list at the given
position.
The first \fIitem_count\fP items of the \fIitems\fP array are added to
the list.
When the items are inserted into the list, they are compared with the
current \fBXmNselectedItems\fP list.
If the any of the new items matches an item on the selected list, it
appears selected.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the ID of the \fBXmList\fP.
.IP "\fIitems\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to the items to be added to the list.
.ne 5
.IP "\fIitem_count\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of items in \fIitems\fP.
.IP "\fIposition\fP" .75i
Specifies the position of the first new item in the list.
A value of 1 makes the first new item the first item in the list; a
value of 2 makes it the second item; and so on.
A value of 0 makes the first new item follow the last item in the list.
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fBXmList(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmList(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
