.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmListReplaceItemsPos 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmListReplaceItemsPos \(em a List function that replaces the specified
elements in the list.\fP
.iX "XmListReplaceItemsPos"
.iX "List functions" "XmListReplaceItemsPos"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp 1
void XmListReplaceItemsPos (\fIwidget, new_items, item_count, position\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	XmString	*\fInew_items\fP;
.br
	int	\fIitem_count\fP;
.br
	int	\fIposition\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmListReplaceItemsPos\fP replaces the specified number of
items of the List with new items, starting at the specified position
in the List.
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the ID of the List widget.
.IP "\fInew_items\fP" .75i
Specifies the replacement items.
.IP "\fIitem_count\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of items in \fInew_items\fP and the number of
items in the list to replace.
.IP "\fIposition\fP" .75i
Specifies the position of the first item in the list to be replaced.
A value of 1 indicates that the first item replaced is the first item in
the list; a value of 2 indicates that it is the second item; and so on.
.\"A value of 0 indicates that the first item replaced is the last item in
.\"the list.
.PP
Beginning with the item specified in \fIposition\fP, \fIitem_count\fP
items in the list are replaced with the corresponding elements from
\fInew_items\fP.
That is, the item at \fIposition\fP is replaced with the first element
of \fInew_items\fP; the item after \fIposition\fP is replaced with the
second element of \fInew_items\fP; and so on, until \fIitem_count\fP is
reached.
.PP
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fBXmList(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmList(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
