.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmOptionLabelGadget 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmOptionLabelGadget \(em a RowColumn function that obtains
the widget ID for the LabelGadget in an OptionMenu.\fP
.iX "XmOptionLabelGadget"
.iX "RowColumn functions" "XmOptionLabelGadget"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmOptionLabelGadget (\fIoption_menu\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIoption_menu\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmOptionLabelGadget\fP 
provides the application with the means for obtaining the 
widget ID for the internally created LabelGadget.
Once the application has obtained the widget ID, it can
adjust the visuals for the LabelGadget, if desired.
.PP
When an application creates an instance of the OptionMenu widget, the
widget creates two internal gadgets.  One is a LabelGadget that is used
to display RowColumn's \fBXmNlabelString\fP resource.  The other
is a CascadeButtonGadget that displays the current selection and provides
the means for posting the OptionMenu's submenu.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIoption_menu\fP" 1i
Specifies the OptionMenu widget ID
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\fBXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget ID for the internal label.
.sp 1
.na
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmCreateOptionMenu(3X)\fP, \fBXmLabelGadget(3X)\fP,
\fBXmOptionButtonGadget(3X)\fP, and \fBXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.ad
