.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmOptionButtonGadget 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmOptionButtonGadget \(em a RowColumn function that obtains 
the widget ID for the CascadeButtonGadget in an OptionMenu.\fP
.iX "XmOptionButtonGadget"
.iX "RowColumn functions" "XmOptionButtonGadget"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmOptionButtonGadget (\fIoption_menu\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIoption_menu\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmOptionButtonGadget\fP provides the application with the means for
obtaining the widget ID for the internally created CascadeButtonGadget.  Once
the application has obtained the widget ID, it can
adjust the visuals for the CascadeButtonGadget, if desired.
.PP
When an application creates an instance of the OptionMenu widget, the
widget creates two internal gadgets.  One is a LabelGadget that is 
used to display RowColumn's \fBXmNlabelString\fP resource.
The other is a CascadeButtonGadget that displays the current selection
and provides the means for posting the OptionMenu's submenu.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIoption_menu\fP" 1i
Specifies the OptionMenu widget ID
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\fBXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget ID for the internal button.
.sp 1
.na
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmCreateOptionMenu(3X)\fP, \fBXmCascadeButtonGadget(3X)\fP,
\fBXmOptionLabelGadget(3X)\fP,
and \fBXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.ad
