.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmRemoveProtocols 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmRemoveProtocols \(em a VendorShell function that removes the protocols
from the protocol manager and deallocates the internal tables.\fP
.iX "XmRemoveProtocols"
.iX "VendorShell functions" "XmRemoveProtocols"
.iX "protocols"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.br
\&#include <X11/Protocols.h>
.sp 1
void XmRemoveProtocols (\fIshell, property, protocols, num_protocols\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIshell\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fIproperty\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fI* protocols\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fInum_protocols\fP;
.sp 1
void XmRemoveWMProtocols (\fIshell, protocols, num_protocols\fP)
.br
	Widget	\fIshell\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fI * protocols\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fInum_protocols\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmRemoveProtocols\fP removes the protocols from the protocol manager and
deallocates the internal tables.  If any of the protocols are active, it
will update the handlers and update the property if \fIshell\fP is
realized.
.PP
\fBXmRemoveWMProtocols\fP is a convenience interface.  
It calls \fBXmRemoveProtocols\fP 
with the property value set to the atom returned by
interning \fBWM_PROTOCOLS\fP.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIshell\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the widget with which the protocol property is associated
.IP "\fIproperty\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the protocol property
.IP "\fIprotocols\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the protocol atoms (or ints cast to Atom)
.IP "\fInum_protocols\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in protocols
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of VendorShell and its associated resources, see
\fBVendorShell(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.na
\fBVendorShell(3X)\fP,
\fBXmInternAtom(3X)\fP, and \fBXmRemoveWMProtocols(3X)\fP.
.ad
