.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmScrolledWindowSetAreas 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmScrolledWindowSetAreas \(em a ScrolledWindow function that
adds or changes a window work region and a horizontal or vertical
ScrollBar widget to the ScrolledWindow widget.\fP
.iX "XmScrolledWindowSetAreas"
.iX "ScrolledWindow functions" "XmScrolledWindowSetAreas"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/ScrolledW.h>
.sp 1
void XmScrolledWindowSetAreas (\fIwidget, horizontal_scrollbar, 
vertical_scrollbar, work_region\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	Widget	\fIhorizontal_scrollbar\fP;
.br
	Widget	\fIvertical_scrollbar\fP;
.br
	Widget	\fIwork_region\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmScrolledWindowSetAreas\fP adds or changes a window work region and
a horizontal or vertical ScrollBar widget to the ScrolledWindow widget for 
the application.  Each widget is optional and may be passed as NULL.
.sp 1
.ne 10
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the ScrolledWindow widget ID.
.IP "\fIhorizontal_scrollbar\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the ScrollBar widget ID for the 
horizontal ScrollBar to be associated 
with the ScrolledWindow widget.  Set this ID only after creating an instance
of the ScrolledWindow widget.  The resource name associated with this
argument is \fBXmNhorizontalScrollBar\fP.
.IP "\fIvertical_scrollbar\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the ScrollBar widget ID for the 
vertical ScrollBar to be associated 
with the ScrolledWindow widget.  Set this ID only after creating an instance
of the ScrolledWindow widget.  The resource name associated with this
argument is \fBXmNverticalScrollBar\fP.
.IP "\fIwork_region\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the widget ID for the work window to be associated with the
ScrolledWindow widget.  Set this ID only after creating an instance of the
ScrolledWindow widget.  The attribute name associated with this argument is
\fBXmNworkWindow\fP.
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of ScrolledWindow and its associated resources, see
\fBXmScrolledWindow(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmScrolledWindow(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
