.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmSeparatorGadget 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmSeparatorGadget \(em the SeparatorGadget widget class.\fP
.iX "XmSeparatorGadget"
.iX "widget class" "SeparatorGadget"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <Xm/SeparatoG.h>\fP
.sp 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
SeparatorGadget separates items in a display.  
Several 
line drawing styles are provided, as well as horizontal or vertical
orientation.
.PP
Lines drawn within the SeparatorGadget are automatically
centered within the height of the gadget for a horizontal orientation
and centered within the width of the gadget for a vertical orientation.
An \fBXtSetValues\fP with a new \fBXmNseparatorType\fP resizes the
widget to its minimal height (for horizontal orientation) or its
minimal width (for
vertical orientation) unless height or width is explicitly set in the
\fBXtSetValues\fP call.
.PP
SeparatorGadget does not draw shadows around the separator.  
The Gadget resource \fBXmNshadowThickness\fP is used for the SeparatorGadget's
thickness when \fBXmNseparatorType\fP is \fBXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\fP or
\fBXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\fP.
.PP
SeparatorGadget does not highlight and allows no traversing.  The Gadget
resource \fBXmNtraversalOn\fP is forced to False.
.sp 1
.SS "Classes"
SeparatorGadget inherits behavior and 
resources from \fBObject\fP, \fBRectObj\fP, and \fBXmGadget\fP Classes.
.PP
The class pointer is \fBxmSeparatorGadgetClass\fP.  
.PP
The class name is \fBXmSeparatorGadget\fP.
.sp 1
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the 
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fBXmN\fP or
\fBXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined 
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fBXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (\fBC\fP),
set by using \fBXtSetValues\fP (\fBS\fP), 
retrieved by using \fBXtGetValues\fP (\fBG\fP), or is not applicable (\fBN/A\fP).
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
XmSeparatorGadget Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNmargin	XmCMargin	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNorientation	XmCOrientation	unsigned char	XmHORIZONTAL	CSG
XmNseparatorType	XmCSeparatorType	unsigned char	XmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN	CSG
.TE
.sp 1
.IP "\fBXmNmargin\fP"
For horizontal orientation, specifies the space on the left and right sides between the border of 
SeparatorGadget and the line drawn.
For vertical 
.ne 8
orientation, specifies the space
on the top and bottom between the border 
of SeparatorGadget and the line drawn. 
.IP "\fBXmNorientation\fP"
Specifies whether SeparatorGadget is displayed vertically or horizontally.
This resource can have values of \fBXmVERTICAL\fP and \fBXmHORIZONTAL\fP.
.IP "\fBXmNseparatorType\fP"
Specifies the type of line drawing to be done in the Separator widget.
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSINGLE_LINE\fP \(em single line.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDOUBLE_LINE\fP \(em double line.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSINGLE_DASHED_LINE\fP \(em single-dashed line.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDOUBLE_DASHED_LINE\fP \(em double-dashed line.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmNO_LINE\fP \(em no line.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSHADOW_ETCHED_IN\fP \(em double line giving the effect
of a line etched into the window.
The thickness of the double line is equal to the value of
\fBXmNshadowThickness\fP.
For horizontal orientation, the top line is drawn in \fBXmNtopShadowColor\fP
and the bottom line is drawn in \fBXmNbottomShadowColor\fP.
For vertical orientation, the left line is drawn in \fBXmNtopShadowColor\fP
and the right line is drawn in  \fBXmNbottomShadowColor\fP.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSHADOW_ETCHED_OUT\fP \(em double line giving the effect of an etched line
coming out from the window.
The thickness of the double line is equal to the value of
\fBXmNshadowThickness\fP.
For horizontal orientation, the top line is drawn in \fBXmNbottomShadowColor\fP
and the bottom line is drawn in \fBXmNtopShadowColor\fP.
For vertical orientation, the left line is drawn in \fBXmNbottomShadowColor\fP
and the right line is drawn in \fBXmNtopShadowColor\fP.
.RE
.sp 1
.SS "Inherited Resources"
SeparatorGadget inherits behavior and resources from the following   
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
XmGadget Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNhelpCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNhighlightOnEnter	XmCHighlightOnEnter	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNhighlightThickness	XmCHighlightThickness	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNnavigationType	XmCNavigationType	XmNavigationType	XmNONE	G
XmNshadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	2	CSG
XmNtraversalOn	XmCTraversalOn	Boolean	False	G
XmNunitType	XmCUnitType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNuserData	XmCUserData	Pointer	NULL	CSG
.TE
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
RectObj Resource Set 
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
Object Resource Set 
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
.TE
.sp 1 \"Adds space before the SS
.SS "Behavior"
XmSeparatorGadget has no behavior.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBObject(3X)\fP, \fBRectObject(3X)\fP,
\fBXmCreateSeparatorGadget(3X)\fP, and
\fBXmGadget(3X)\fP.
