.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmSetFontUnit 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fB
XmSetFontUnit \(em a function that sets the font unit value for
a display.\fP
.iX "XmSetFontUnit"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
void XmSetFontUnit (\fIdisplay, font_unit_value\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Display	\fI* display\fP;
.br
	int	\fIfont_unit_value\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmSetFontUnit\fP provides an external function to initialize font unit
values.  Applications may want to specify resolution-independent data based
on a global font size.  This function must be called before any widgets with
resolution-independent data are created.  See the \fBXmNunitType\fP
resource description in the manual pages for
\fBXmGadget\fP, \fBXmManager\fP, and \fBXmPrimitive\fP for more information
on resolution independence.
.PP
This function is obsolete and exists for compatibility with previous
releases.
\fBXmSetFontUnits\fP is preferable because it allows specification of
separate horizontal and vertical font unit values.
.sp 1
.ne 12
.IP "\fIdisplay\fP" 1.25i
Defines the display for which this font unit value is to be applied.
.IP "\fIfont_unit_value\fP"1.25i
Specifies the value to be used for both horizontal and vertical font
units in the conversion calculations.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmConvertUnits(3X)\fP,
\fBXmSetFontUnits(3X)\fP,
\fBXmGadget(3X)\fP,
\fBXmManager(3X)\fP, and
\fBXmPrimitive(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
