.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringGetNextComponent 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringGetNextComponent \(em a compound string function that
returns the type and value of the next component in a
compound string.\fP
.iX "XmStringGetNextComponent"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringGetNextComponent"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
XmStringComponentType XmStringGetNextComponent (\fIcontext, text, charset,
direction, xunknown_tag, unknown_length, unknown_value\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 2.25i
.br
	XmStringContext	\fIcontext\fP;
.br
	char	\fI** text\fP;
.br
	XmStringCharSet	\fI* charset\fP;
.br
	XmStringDirection	\fI* direction\fP;
.br
	XmStringComponentType	\fI* unknown_tag\fP;
.br
	unsigned short	\fI* unknown_length\fP;
.br
	unsigned char	\fI** unknown_value\fP;
.fi
\fP
.br
.ne 10
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringGetNextComponent\fP 
returns the type and value of the next component in
the compound string identified by \fIcontext\fP.  It is a low-level
component function.  Components are returned one at a time.  On return, only
some output parameters will be valid; which ones can be determined by
examining the return status.  In the case of \fItext\fP, \fIcharset\fP, and
\fIdirection\fP components, only one output parameter is valid.  If the
return status indicates an unknown component was encountered, the tag,
length, and value are returned.  This function allocates the
space necessary to hold returned values; freeing this space is the
caller's responsibility.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIcontext\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies the string context structure which was allocated by the
\fBXmStringInitContext\fP function.
.IP "\fItext\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies a pointer to a null terminated string.
.IP "\fIcharset\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies a pointer to the character set identifier associated with the
text.
.IP "\fIdirection\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies a pointer to the direction of the text.
.IP "\fIunknown_tag\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies a pointer to the tag of an unknown component.
.IP "\fIunknown_length\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies a pointer to the length of an unknown component.
.IP "\fIunknown_value\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies a pointer to the value of an unknown component.
.sp 1
.ne 25
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the type of component found.
Following are the possible values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSTRING_COMPONENT_CHARSET\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSTRING_COMPONENT_TEXT\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSTRING_COMPONENT_DIRECTION\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSTRING_COMPONENT_SEPARATOR\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSTRING_COMPONENT_END\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSTRING_COMPONENT_UNKNOWN\fP
.RE
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and \fBXmStringInitContext(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
