.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringGetLtoR 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringGetLtoR \(em a compound string function that searches for a 
text segment in the input compound string.\fP
.iX "XmStringGetLtoR"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringGetLtoR"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Boolean XmStringGetLtoR (\fIstring, charset, text\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 2i
.br
	XmString	\fIstring\fP;
.br
	XmStringCharSet	\fIcharset\fP;
.br
	char	\fI** text\fP;
.fi
\fP
.br
.ne 30
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringGetLtoR\fP searches for a 
text segment in the input compound string that
matches the given character set identifier.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIstring\fP" .75i
Specifies the compound string.
.IP "\fIcharset\fP" .75i
Specifies the character set identifier to be associated with the text.
This can be \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, but this value does not
comply with the AES, and it may be removed in future versions of Motif.
If the value is \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, the routine derives the
character set from the current language environment.
.IP "\fItext\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to a null terminated string.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE 
Returns True if the matching text segment can be found.
On return, \fItext\fP will have a null terminated octet sequence
containing the matched segment.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
