.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringDraw 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringDraw \(em a compound string function that draws a compound
string in an X window.\fP
.iX "XmStringDraw"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringDraw"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
void XmStringDraw (\fId, w, fontlist, string, gc, x, y, width, alignment,
layout_direction, clip\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	Display	\fI* d\fP;
.br
	Window	\fIw\fP;
.br
	XmFontList	\fIfontlist\fP;
.br
	XmString	\fIstring\fP;
.br
	GC	\fIgc\fP;
.br
	Position	\fIx\fP;
.br
	Position	\fIy\fP;
.br
	Dimension	\fIwidth\fP;
.br
	unsigned char	\fIalignment\fP;
.br
	unsigned char	\fIlayout_direction\fP;
.br
	XRectangle	\fI* clip\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringDraw\fP draws a compound string in an X Window.  
.PP
When \fIstring\fP has been created with \fBXmStringCreateSimple\fP, the
font associated with the character set derived from the
current language environment must
appear at the front of \fIfontlist\fP.
Otherwise, the result of the function is undefined.
.sp 1
.IP "\fId\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the display.
.IP "\fIw\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the window.
.IP "\fIfontlist\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the font list.
.IP "\fIstring\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the string.
.IP "\fIgc\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the graphics context to use.
.IP "\fIx\fP" 1.25i
Specifies a coordinate of the rectangle that will contain the displayed
compound string.
.IP "\fIy\fP" 1.25i
Specifies a coordinate of the rectangle that will contain the displayed
compound string.
.IP "\fIwidth\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the width of the rectangle that will contain the 
displayed compound string.
.IP "\fIalignment\fP" 1.25i
Specifies how the string will be aligned within the specified rectangle.
It is either \fBXmALIGNMENT_BEGINNING\fP, \fBXmALIGNMENT_CENTER\fP, or
\fBXmALIGNMENT_END\fP.
.IP "\fIlayout_direction\fP" 1.25i
Controls the direction in which the segments of the compound string will
be laid out.  It also determines the meaning of the \fIalignment\fP parameter.
.IP "\fIclip\fP" 1.25i
Allows the application to restrict the area into which the compound string
will be drawn.  If NULL, no clipping will be done.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and
\fBXmStringCreateSimple(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
