.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringHasSubstring 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringHasSubstring \(em a compound string function that indicates
whether one compound string is contained within another.\fP
.iX "XmStringHasSubstring"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringHasSubstring"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Boolean XmStringHasSubstring (\fIstring, substring\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	XmString	\fIstring\fP;
.br
	XmString	\fIsubstring\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringHasSubstring\fP 
indicates whether or not one compound string is contained within
another.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIstring\fP" .75i
Specifies the compound string to be searched
.IP "\fIstring\fP" .75i 
Specifies the compound string to be searched for
.sp 1
.br
.ne 10
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if
\fIsubstring\fP
has a single segment and if its text is completely contained within any
single segment of
\fIstring\fP;
otherwise, returns False.
If two compound strings created using
\fBXmStringCreateSimple\fP in the same language environment
satisfy this condition, the function returns True.
If two compound strings created with the same character set using
\fBXmStringCreate\fP satisfy this condition, the function returns True.
The result of comparing a compound string created with
\fBXmStringCreate\fP
against a compound string created with
\fBXmStringCreateSimple\fP
is undefined.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and
\fBXmStringCreateSimple(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
