.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringByteCompare 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringByteCompare \(em a compound string function that indicates the
results of a byte-by-byte comparison.\fP
.iX "XmStringByteCompare"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringByteCompare"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Boolean XmStringByteCompare (\fIs1, s2\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	XmString	\fIs1\fP;
.br
	XmString	\fIs2\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringByteCompare\fP 
returns a Boolean indicating the results of a byte-by-byte
comparison of two compound strings.
.PP
In general, if two compound strings are created with the same (char *)
string using \fBXmStringCreateSimple\fP in the same language
environment, the compound strings compare as equal.
If two compound strings are created with the same (char *) string and
the same character set
other than \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP
using \fBXmStringCreate\fP, the strings compare as equal.
The result of comparing a compound string created with
\fBXmStringCreate\fP
against a compound string created with
\fBXmStringCreateSimple\fP
is undefined.
.PP
In some cases, once a compound string
is put into a widget, that string is converted into an internal form to
allow faster processing.  Part of the conversion process strips out
unnecessary or redundant information.  If an application then does an
\fBXtGetValues\fP to retrieve a compound string from a widget (specifically,
Label and all of its subclasses), it is not guaranteed that the compound
string returned is byte-for-byte the same as the string given to
the widget originally.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIs1\fP" .75i
Specifies a compound string to be compared with \fIs2\fP
.IP "\fIs2\fP" .75i
Specifies a compound string to be compared with \fIs1\fP
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if two compound strings are identical byte-by-byte.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and
\fBXmStringCreateSimple(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
