.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextReplace 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmTextReplace \(em a Text function that replaces part of a text string.\fP
.iX "XmTextReplace"
.iX "Text functions" "XmTextReplace"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp 1
void XmTextReplace (\fIwidget, from_pos, to_pos, value\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.7i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	XmTextPosition	\fIfrom_pos\fP;
.br
	XmTextPosition	\fIto_pos\fP;
.br
	char	\fI* value\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmTextReplace\fP replaces part of the text string in the Text widget.  The
character positions begin at zero and are numbered sequentially from the
beginning of the text.  
.br
.ne 5
.PP
An example text replacement would be to replace
the second and third characters in the text string.  To accomplish this,
the parameter \fIfrom_pos\fP must be 1 and \fIto_pos\fP must be 3.  To
insert a string after the fourth character, both parameters, \fIfrom_pos\fP
and \fIto_pos\fP, must be 4.
.PP
.ne 20
This routine also calls the widget's \fBXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP and
\fBXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP callbacks.
.sp 1
.br
.ne 5
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the Text widget ID
.IP "\fIfrom_pos\fP" .75i
Specifies the start position of the text to be replaced
.IP "\fIto_pos\fP" .75i
Specifies the end position of the text to be replaced
.IP "\fIvalue\fP" .75i
Specifies the character string value to be added to the text widget
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fBXmText(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmText(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
