.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextFieldPosToXY 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmTextFieldPosToXY \(em a TextField function that accesses the x and y
position of a character position\fP
.iX "XmTextFieldPosToXY"
.iX "TextField functions" "XmTextFieldPosToXY"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp 1
Boolean XmTextFieldPosToXY (\fIwidget, position, x, y\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	XmTextPosition	\fIposition\fP;
.br
	Position	\fI*x\fP;
.br
	Position	\fI*y\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmTextFieldPosToXY\fP accesses the x and y position, relative to the upper
left corner of the TextField widget, of a given character position in the
text buffer.
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the TextField widget ID
.IP "\fIposition\fP" .75i
Specifies the character position in the text for which the x and y
position is accessed.  This is an integer number of characters
from the beginning of the buffer.  The first character position is 0.
.br
.ne 10
.IP "\fIx\fP" .75i
Specifies the pointer in which the x position, relative to the upper
left corner of the widget, is returned.  This value is meaningful only
if the function returns True.
.IP "\fIy\fP" .75i
Specifies the pointer in which the y position, relative to the upper
left corner of the widget, is returned.  This value is meaningful only
if the function returns True.
.PP
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fBXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns True if the character position is displayed in the
TextField widget; otherwise, it returns False, and no \fIx\fP or \fIy\fP
value is returned.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmTextField(3X)\fP.
