.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextFieldSetHighlight 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmTextFieldSetHighlight \(em a TextField function that highlights text\fP
.iX "XmTextFieldSetHighlight"
.iX "TextField functions" "XmTextFieldSetHighlight"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp 1
void XmTextFieldSetHighlight (\fIwidget, left, right, mode\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	XmTextPosition	\fIleft\fP;
.br
	XmTextPosition	\fIright\fP;
.br
	XmHighlightMode	\fImode\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmTextFieldSetHighlight\fP highlights text between the two specified
character positions.  The \fImode\fP parameter determines the type of
highlighting.  Highlighting text merely changes the visual appearance of
the text; it does not set the selection.
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the TextField widget ID
.IP "\fIleft\fP" .75i
Specifies the position of the left boundary of text to be highlighted.
This is an integer number of characters from the beginning of the text
buffer.  The first character position is 0.
.IP "\fIright\fP" .75i
Specifies the position of the right boundary of text to be highlighted.
This is an integer number of characters from the beginning of the text
buffer.  The first character position is 0.
.IP "\fImode\fP" .75i
Specifies the type of highlighting to be done.  A value of
\fBXmHIGHLIGHT_NORMAL\fP removes highlighting.  A value of
\fBXmHIGHLIGHT_SELECTED\fP highlights the test using reverse video.  A
value of \fBXmHIGHLIGHT_SECONDARY_SELECTED\fP highlights the text using
underlining.
.PP
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fBXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmTextField(3X)\fP.
