.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextFieldReplace 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmTextFieldReplace \(em a TextField function that replaces part of a text string.\fP
.iX "XmTextFieldReplace"
.iX "TextField functions" "XmTextFieldReplace"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp 1
void XmTextFieldReplace (\fIwidget, from_pos, to_pos, value\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.7i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	XmTextPosition	\fIfrom_pos\fP;
.br
	XmTextPosition	\fIto_pos\fP;
.br
	char	\fI* value\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmTextFieldReplace\fP replaces part of the text string in the TextField widget.  The
character positions begin at zero and are numbered sequentially from the
beginning of the text.  
.PP
An example text replacement would be to replace
the second and third characters in the text string.  To accomplish this,
the parameter \fIfrom_pos\fP must be 1 and \fIto_pos\fP must be 3.  To
insert a string after the fourth character, both parameters, \fIfrom_pos\fP
and \fIto_pos\fP, must be 4.
.PP
This routine also calls the widget's \fBXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP and
\fBXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP callbacks.
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the TextField widget ID
.IP "\fIfrom_pos\fP" .75i
Specifies the start position of the text to be replaced
.IP "\fIto_pos\fP" .75i
Specifies the end position of the text to be replaced
.IP "\fIvalue\fP" .75i
Specifies the character string value to be added to the text widget
.PP
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fBXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmTextField(3X)\fP.
