.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextFieldSetMaxLength 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmTextFieldSetMaxLength \(em a TextField function that sets the value of the
current maximum allowable length of a text string entered from the keyboard.\fP
.iX "XmTextFieldSetMaxLength"
.iX "TextField functions" "XmTextFieldSetMaxLength"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp 1
void XmTextFieldSetMaxLength (\fIwidget, max_length\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	int	\fImax_length\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmTextFieldSetMaxLength\fP sets the value of the current maximum allowable
length of the text string in the TextField widget.  The maximum allowable length
prevents the user from entering a text string from the keyboard
that is larger than this limit.  Strings that are entered using the
\fBXmNvalue\fP resource or the \fBXmTextFieldSetString\fP function ignore this
resource.
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the TextField widget ID
.IP "\fImax_length\fP" .75i
Specifies the maximum allowable length of the text string
.PP
.ne 3
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fBXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmTextField(3X)\fP and \fBXmTextFieldSetString(3X)\fP.
