.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmVaCreateSimpleOptionMenu 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmVaCreateSimpleOptionMenu \(em a RowColumn widget convenience creation
function.\fP
.iX "XmVaCreateSimpleOptionMenu"
.iX "creation functions" "XmVaCreateSimpleOptionMenu"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmVaCreateSimpleOptionMenu (\fIparent, name, option_label,
option_mnemonic, button_set, callback, arg...\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	XmString	\fIoption_label\fP;
.br
	KeySym	\fIoption_mnemonic\fP;
.br
	int	\fIbutton_set\fP;
.br
	XtCallbackProc	\fIcallback\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmVaCreateSimpleOptionMenu\fP creates an instance of a RowColumn widget
of type \fBXmMENU_OPTION\fP and returns the associated widget ID.
This routine uses the ANSI C variable-length argument list (varargs)
calling convention.
.PP
This routine creates an OptionMenu and its Pulldown submenu containing
PushButtonGadget or CascadeButtonGadget children.
The name of each button is button_\fIn\fP, where \fIn\fP is an integer
from 0 to one minus the number of buttons in the menu.
The name of each separator is separator_\fIn\fP, where \fIn\fP is an
integer from 0 to one minus the number of separators in the menu.
Buttons and separators are named and created in the order in which they
are specified in the variable portion of the argument list.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIoption_label\fP" .75i
Specifies the label string to be used on the left side of the
OptionMenu.
.IP "\fIoption_mnemonic\fP" .75i
Specifies a keysym for a key that, when pressed by the user, posts
the associated Pulldown MenuPane.
.IP "\fIbutton_set\fP" .75i
Specifies which PushButtonGadget is initially set.
The value is the integer \fIn\fP that corresponds to the \fIn\fPth
PushButtonGadget specified in the variable portion of the argument list.
Only a PushButtonGadget can be set, and only PushButtonGadgets are
counted in determining the integer \fIn\fP.
The first PushButtonGadget is number 0.
.IP "\fIcallback\fP" .75i
Specifies a callback procedure to be called when a button is activated.
This callback function is added to each button after creation as the
button's \fBXmNactivateCallback\fP.
The callback function is called when a button is activated, and the
button number is returned in the \fIclient_data\fP field.
.sp 1
.PP
The variable portion of the argument list consists of groups of
arguments.
The first argument in each group is a constant or a string and
determines which arguments follow in that group.
The last argument in the list must be NULL.
Following are the possible first arguments in each group of varargs:
.sp 1
.IP "\fBXmVaPUSHBUTTON\fP" .75i
This is followed by four additional arguments.  The set specifies one
button in the OptionMenu's Pulldown submenu and some of its resource
values.  The button created is a PushButtonGadget.  Following are the
additional four arguments, in this order:
.RS .75i
.IP "\fIlabel\fP" .75i
The label string, of type XmString.
.IP "\fImnemonic\fP" .75i
The mnemonic, of type KeySym.
.IP "\fIaccelerator\fP" .75i
The accelerator, of type String.
.IP "\fIaccelerator_text\fP" .75i
The accelerator text, of type XmString.
.RE
.IP "\fBXmVaSEPARATOR\fP" .75i
This is followed by no additional arguments.  It specifies one separator
in the OptionMenu's Pulldown submenu.
.IP "\fBXmVaDOUBLE_SEPARATOR\fP" .75i
This is followed by no additional arguments.  It specifies one separator
in the OptionMenu's Pulldown submenu.  The separator type is
\fBXmDOUBLE_LINE\fP.
.IP "\fIresource_name\fP" .75i
This is followed by one additional argument, the value of the resource,
of type XtArgVal.  The pair specifies a resource and its value for the
Pulldown submenu.
.IP "\fBXtVaTypedArg\fP" .75i
This is followed by four additional arguments.  The set specifies a
resource and its value for the Pulldown submenu.  A resource type
conversion is performed if necessary.  Following are the additional four
arguments, in this order:
.RS .75i
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
The resource name, of type String.
.IP "\fItype\fP" .75i
The type of the resource value supplied, of type String.
.IP "\fIvalue\fP" .75i
The resource value (or a pointer to the resource value, depending on the
type and size of the value), of type XtArgVal.
.IP "\fIsize\fP" .75i
The size of the resource value in bytes, of type int.
.RE
.IP "\fBXtVaNestedList\fP" .75i
This is followed by one additional argument of type XtVarArgsList.  This
argument is a nested list of varargs returned by
\fBXtVaCreateArgsList\fP.
.sp 1
.PP
For more information on variable-length argument lists, see the X
Toolkit Intrinsics documentation.
.PP
A number of resources exist specifically for use with this and
other simple menu creation routines.
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\fBXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the RowColumn widget ID.
.sp 1
.na
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmCreateOptionMenu(3X)\fP,
\fBXmCreateRowColumn(3X)\fP,
\fBXmCreateSimpleOptionMenu(3X)\fP, and
\fBXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.ad
