.\"
.\" $Id: concat.3,v 1.4 89/12/26 20:12:51 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	concat.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4  89/12/26  20:12:51  bww
.\" 	Updated version macro.
.\" 	[89/12/26  20:11:26  bww]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:15:50  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.2  89/05/26  12:15:30  bww
.\" 	CMU CS as of 89/05/15
.\" 	[89/05/26  09:46:50  bww]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  89/02/22  17:58:48  gm0w
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[89/02/22            gm0w]
.\" 
.TH CONCAT 3 2/22/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
concat, vconcat \- concatenate strings into a buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B
char *concat(buf, buflen, str1, str2, ..., NULL);
.br
.B
char *buf;
.br
.B
int buflen;
.br
.B
char *str1, *str2, ...;
.PP
.B
#include <varargs.h>
.PP
.B
char *vconcat(buf, buflen, ap)
.br
.B
char *buf;
.br
.B
int buflen;
.br
.B
va_list ap;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Concat
takes a list of string pointers and concatenates them into a buffer.
The string pointers are terminated by a NULL (0) string pointer.
.I Buf
should be a buffer of length
.IR buflen
that will contain the concatenation of the string pointers.
.PP
.I Concat
will return NULL if
.I buf
is NULL, if
.I buflen
is <= 0, or if the concatenation of the string pointers did not
fit into
.IR buf .
In all other cases,
.I concat
will terminate the concatenation with a null (0) byte and return a
pointer to the null byte.
.PP
.I Vconcat
is a varargs version of concat which may be used by routines to
concatenate their string pointer argument list into a buffer.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.I end
=
.IR concat ( buf ,
.IR buflen ,
.IR dir ,
\fI"/"\fR,
.IR file ,
.IR NULL );
.PP
could be used to generate a file path from a directory name and a
file name, returning a pointer to the end of the path.
.PP
.IR concat ( end ,
.IR buf + buflen - end ,
\fI"."\fR,
.IR ext ,
.IR NULL );
.PP
could then be used to add an extension to the file path.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
strcat(3), strcpy(3), sprintf(3)
