.\"
.\" $Id: del.3,v 1.3 89/12/26 11:16:00 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	del.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:16:00  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 06-Dec-79  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created.
.\"
.TH DEL 3 12/6/79
.CM 1
.SH "NAME"
del \- interrupt handling package
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
#include <del.h>
.sp
.B
ENABLEDEL;
.br
.B
IGNOREDEL;
.br
.B
DISABLEDEL;
.sp
.li
...
.BR DELBREAK ;
.li
...
.br
.li
...
.BR DELRETURN ;
.li
...
.br
.li
...
.BR DELRETN(value) ;
.li
...
.br
.li
...
.BR DELCLEAR ;
.li
...
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Del
is a small subroutine used as an interrupt trap routine.
It is used
with the macro package
.I
<del.h>
to provide a complete
facility for trapping interrupts
.I
(DEL
or
.I
RUBOUT
key on the terminal).
.sp
The macro file incldes all the definitions listed above, and uses an
external int
.RI ( _del_ )
as an interrupt flag.
When an interrupt occurs, the
.I
del
subroutine will increment
.I
_del_
(usually from 0 to 1),
.IR signal (2)
itself for further interrupts, and return.
The user may then test
this variable with the macros listed above.
.sp
These macros control overall interrupt handling:
.TP
ENABLEDEL
clears
.I
_del_
and begins interrupt trapping.
.TP
IGNOREDEL
clears
.I
_del_
and ignores interrupts.
.TP
DISABLEDEL
clears
.I
_del_
and restores normal interrupt handling (kill process on interrupt).
.i0
.DT
.PP
These macros allow you to see if an interrupt has occurred (they
do nothing if none has occurred):
.TP
DELBREAK
clears
.I
_del_
and acts like a
.I
break
statement.
.TP
DELRETURN
clears
.I
_del_
and acts like a
.I
return
statement.
.TP
DELRETN(value)
clears
.I
_del_
and acts like the statement
.IR return ( value ).
.TP
DELCLEAR
clears
.I
_del_
and prints "Break ignored".
.i0
.DT
.PP
In addition, you may perform a simpler test for interrupts like this:
.nf
	if (_del_) ...
.fi
This is useful in conjunction with the above macros when you wish,
for example, to exit from several layers of loops or procedures.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/cs/include/del.h -- macro package
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR signal (2)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP
.B
Break!
.br
printed by
.I
DELBREAK, DELRETURN,
and
.I
DELRETURN(value)
if an interrupt has occurred.
.TP
.B
Break ignored.
.br
printed by
.I
DELCLEAR
if an interrupt has occurred.
.i0
.DT
.PP
.SH "BUGS"
It is possible, in any UNIX program which traps interrupts, for
an interrupt to be missed if it immediately follows a previous
interrupt of the same kind.
