.\"
.\" $Id: editor.3,v 1.3 89/12/26 11:16:18 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	editor.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:16:18  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 12-Nov-80  Mike Accetta (mja) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Removed references to obsolete editors.
.\"
.\" 06-Dec-79  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created.
.\"
.TH EDITOR 3 11/12/80
.CM 2
.SH "NAME"
editor \- execute the user's favorite editor
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
int editor (file,message);
.br
.B
char *file,*message;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Editor
will execute the editor preferred by the user,
to edit the file whose name is
.I
file.
The string
.I
message
will be printed to tell the user what he is editing.
.sp
This routine contains all the special knowledge needed to
execute the editors known to the system; if the user wants
to use some other editor, it will be done but with no special
assistance from this routine.
.sp
There is assumed to be an environment parameter called
.I
EDITOR,
whose value is the name of the user's favorite editor
(e.g.
.IR ex ,
.IR emacs ).
If the
.I
EDITOR
parameter is missing from the environment, some default
editor will be used.
.sp
The
.IR runp (3)
routine
is used to execute the editor; it uses the
.I
PATH
environment parameter to find the editor.
In general, if
the editor can be found by the shell, it should be found
by
.I
editor.
.sp
.I
Editor
returns the return code of the editor upon normal
completion, or 
\-1 
if the editor if interrupted or cannot
be executed.
.sp
This routine is useful for any program which allows the user
to edit a text file.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
EDITOR
.br
is assumed to be the name of the user's favorite editor.
Typical values include "ex", "vi", "emacs", and "ed", but
any other editor is also acceptable; it will be executed with a
single parameter which is the name of the file to be edited.
The value of EDITOR may be an absolute name, if desired.
.TP
PATH
.br
is assumed to be the searchlist for executable programs.
.i0
.DT
.PP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR ed (1),
.IR ex (1),
.IR runp (3)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Returns 
\-1 
if the editor cannot be successfully executed,
0 normally, >0 if the editor itself discovers some error condition.
.SH "BUGS"
The default editor is 
.BR emacs .
.sp
If
.I
message
contains a newline, it may not be completely meaningful when
using some screen-oriented editors.
