.\"
.\" $Id: filecopy.3,v 1.3 89/12/26 11:16:55 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	filecopy.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:16:55  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 05-Dec-79  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created.
.\"
.TH FILECOPY 3 12/5/79
.CM 1
.SH "NAME"
filecopy, ffilecopy \- copy an open file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
int filecopy (here,there);
.br
.B
int here,there;
.sp
.B
#include <stdio.h>
.br
.B
int ffilecopy (here,there);
.br
.B
FILE *here,*there;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Filecopy
copies the open input file
.I
here
to the open output file
.I
there.
The input data from the current file pointer of
.I
here
until EOF are appended after the current file pointer of
.I
there.
.sp
.I
Ffilecopy
copies the open buffered input file
.I
here
to the open buffered output file
.I
there.
The input data from the current file pointer of
.I
here
until EOF are appended after the current file pointer
of
.I
there.
The data currently in both buffers is correctly handled, and
both buffers are left in an appropriate state.
After
.I
ffilecopy,
.I
feof(here)
will be true.
.sp
These routines are probably faster than you would care to code
for yourself, although they are quite simple.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.I
Filecopy
and
.I
ffilecopy
return 0 normally, \-1 on error.
If an error occurs, the file
copying operation may be incomplete.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR rename (3)
