.\"
.\" $Id: getacent.3,v 1.3 89/12/25 13:10:21 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	getacent.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/25  13:10:21  bww
.\" 	Eliminated ".so".
.\" 	[89/12/25  13:07:12  bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 14-Jun-82  Mike Accetta (mja) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created from getgrent (3).
.\"
.TH GETACENT 3 6/14/82
.CM 3
.SH "NAME"
getacent, getacauid, getacanam, setacent, endacent \- get account file entry
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <acc.h>
.PP
.B struct account *getacent()
.PP
.B struct account *getacauid(uid, aid)
.B int uid;
.B int aid;
.PP
.B struct account *getacanam(name, aid)
.B char *name;
.B int aid;
.PP
.B int setacent()
.PP
.B int endacent()
.sp
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I Getacent,
.I getacauid
and
.I getacanam
each return a pointer to an object with the
following structure
containing the broken-out
fields of a line in the account file.
.RS
.PP
.nf
/*
 *  see getacent(3)
 */

struct	account
{
	char	*ac_name;
	char	**ac_attrs;
	int	 ac_uid;
	int	 ac_aid;
	char	*ac_created;
	char	*ac_expires;
	char	*ac_sponsor;
	time_t	 ac_ctime;
	time_t	 ac_xtime;
};

struct account *getacent(), *getacauid(), *getacanam();
.ft R
.ad
.fi
.RE
.PP
The members of this structure are:
.TP \w'ac_created'u+2n
ac_name
The user name associated with the account.
.br
.ns
.TP \w'ac_created'u+2n
ac_attrs
Attribute strings.
.br
.ns
.TP \w'ac_created'u+2n
ac_uid
The numerical user-ID for the name.
.br
.ns
.TP \w'ac_created'u+2n
ac_aid
The numerical account-ID
(currently a selected subset of group-ID's).
.br
.ns
.TP \w'ac_created'u+2n
ac_created
The account creation date string (as DD-MMM-YY).
.br
.ns
.TP \w'ac_created'u+2n
ac_expires
The account expiration date string (as DD-MMM-YY).
.br
.ns
.TP \w'ac_created'u+2n
ac_sponsor
The login name of the account sponsor.
.PP
Two additional structure members are also provided
for convenience of higher level software and
are only initialized to zero by these routines (since
performing a full date string to time conversion for each
line read from the file is
unnecessarily expensive):
.PP
.TP \w'ac_created'u+2n
ac_ctime
The account creation date.
.br
.ns
.TP \w'ac_created'u+2n
ac_xtime
The account expiration date.
.br
.PP
.I Getacent
reads the next
line (opening the file if necessary);
.I setacent
rewinds the file;
.I endacent
closes it.
.PP
.I Getacauid
and
.I getacanam
search from the beginning until a matching
.I uid
or
.I name
is found with the specified
account ID
.I aid
(or until no matches are still possible given the ordering of
the file).
.SH "FILES"
/etc/account
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR account (5),
.IR getgrent (3),
.IR getpwent (3)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Null pointer
(0) returned on EOF or error.
.SH "BUGS"
All information
is contained in a static area
so it must be copied if it is
to be saved.
