.\"
.\" $Id: getname.3,v 1.4 90/01/09 16:50:16 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	getname.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4  90/01/09  16:50:16  bww
.\" 	Removed .I from NAME section.
.\" 	[90/01/09  16:49:35  bww]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:18:01  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 27-Oct-84  Rudy Nedved (ern) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Add SEE ALSO section and made a few modifications.
.\"
.\" 12-Feb-84  Lori Garrett at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created.
.\"
.TH GETNAME 3 10/27/84
.CM 4
.SH "NAME"
getname \- returns the string login id of the entry in the password file whose numerical user id matches userid
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
char *getname(userid)
.br
.B
int userid;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
getname
searches through the password file for an entry whose numerical user id
matches the parameter 
.I
userid.
.sp
.I
getname 
continues searching until a match or the end of the password file
has been reached, building its own structure, 
.I
names, 
for storing the entries
of the password file that were examined.
.sp
If 
.I
getname
is called repeatedly, 
.I
names
is checked first for an entry matching
.I
userid. 
If none is found, entries from the password file are entered 
.I
names
as before. 
.sp
When the entire password file has been stored, only 
.I
names
will be checked
for an entry matching 
.I
userid.
.SH "FILES"
.nf
/etc/passwd             The password file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
passwd(5), getpwent(3), login(1), crypt(3), group(5)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
getname returns the pointer NULL when there is no entry in the password
file corresponding to userid.
