.\"
.\" $Id: hardcrypt.3,v 1.4 89/12/26 20:12:58 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	hardcrypt.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4  89/12/26  20:12:58  bww
.\" 	Updated version macro.
.\" 	[89/12/26  20:11:43  bww]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:18:52  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 18-May-88  Glenn Marcy (gm0w) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created from crypt(3).
.\"
.\"
.\"	@(#)hardcrypt.3	6.1 (Berkeley) 5/15/85
.\"
.TH HARDCRYPT 3  "May 15, 1985"
.CM 4
.SH NAME
hardcrypt \- harder DES encryption
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B char *hardcrypt(key, salt)
.B char *key, *salt;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Hardcrypt
is the password encryption routine used on facilities maintained systems
for users login passwords instead crypt(3).
It is based on the NBS Data Encryption Standard, with
variations intended (among other things) to frustrate use of hardware
implementations of the DES for key search.  It uses an improved
implementation of crypt(3) with a greater number of iterations to
decrease the likelyhood that the work required to perform an encryption
can be significantly improved further.
.PP
The first argument to
.I hardcrypt
is normally a user's typed password.
The second is a 2-character string chosen from the
set [a-zA-Z0-9./].
The
.I salt
string is used to perturb the DES algorithm in one of 4096
different ways, after which the password
is used as the key to encrypt repeatedly a constant string.
The returned value points to the encrypted password,
in the same alphabet as the salt.
The first two characters are the salt itself.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
passwd(1), passwd(5), login(1), getpass(3), crypt(3)
.SH BUGS
The return value
points to static data whose content is overwritten
by each call.
