.TH ipcx 3 5/7/87
.SH NAME
.nf
init_ipcx \- inititalize interface to ipcexecd server
startserver \- start a server on a remote machine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <mach.h>
#include <servers/ipcx.h>

void	init_ipcx(reply_port);
		port_t	reply_port;

kern_return_t	startserver( 
		ServPort,userid,password,commandline,server_k_port,server_n_port)
	port_t		ServPort;
	a_string	userid;
	a_string	password;
	a_string	commandline;
	port_t		*server_k_port;
	port_t		*server_n_port;

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP 15
.B reply_port
port that 
.I startserver
will reply on. If set to 
.I PORT_NULL
a new port will be allocated.
.TP 15
.B ServPort
port to the ipcexecd server on the remote machine.
.TP 15
.B userid
the userid under which the started server will run.
.TP 15
.B password
the (encrypted) password of the user specified by
.B userid.
.TP 15
.B commandline
the command line used to startup the requested server.
The first item should be the name of the program to run, and
the rest of the line is any arguments to that program.
.TP 15
.B server_k_port
The task_self port of the started program
.TP 15
.B server_n_port
The task_notify port of the started program.
.i0
.DT
.SH DESCRIPTION	
.I startserver
will start a task on a remote host. The first word
of the 
.B commandline
must be the name of the program that the remote task is
to execute. Any other words on that line are passed to
the task in the argv vector. Words are separated by
one or more spaces. The remote task will be run under the
userid that is provided. The passwd is checked for validity
by su.
The two ports that are returned allow the caller to control the
remote task.
.B server_k_port
is the remote task's port to the kernel, e.g. its
.B task_self()
port.  Using this port, the client can make
kernel calls on behalf of the remote task.
.B server_n_port
is the notification port of the remote task, e.g. its
.B task_notify()
port.

For this call to work an
.I ipcexecd server
must be running on the target host. The port to this server
can be found by a call to 
.I net_name_lookup
for the name 
.I <prefix><host_name>.
.I <prefix>
is either 
.B DEFAULT_PREFIX
defined in the file
.B <servers/ipcx_types.h>
or the prefix argument that the ipcexecd server was
started with.
.I <host_name>
is the name of the target machine.
There is also a program
.B start_rem_server(1)
that will prompt for the remote machine name and
the command line, do the appropriate net_name_lookups
and call 
.B startserver.
.SH RESULTS
.TP 15
.B KERN_SUCCESS
the requested program was successfully started.
.TP 15
.B IPCX_FILENOTFOUNT
the program to run was not found.
.TP 15
.B IPCX_WRONGUSER
either the userid was not found or the password was incorrect.
.TP 15
.B KERN_FAILURE
the ipcexecd server was unable to fork a task for
the requested program.


.SH SEE ALSO
ipcexecd(1), start_rem_server(1), net_name_lookup(3), ipcexecd(3)

.SH HISTORY
.TP
7 May 87 Alessandro Forin and Jeffrey Eppinger at Carnegie Mellon
Made a mach version of old accent ipcexecd.
