.TH NETNAME 3 7/20/88
.CM 4
.SH NAME
.nf
netname_check_in \- check in a name into the local name-space
netname_check_out \- check out a name from the local name-space
netname_look_up \- look up a name on a specific host
netname_version \- get the version of the network name server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <servers/netname.h>

void init_netname(ReplyPort)
	port_t	ReplyPort;

kern_return_t netname_check_in(ServPort,port_name,signature,port_id)
	port_t			ServPort;
	netname_name_t	port_name;
	port_t			signature;
	port_t			port_id;

kern_return_t netname_look_up(ServPort,host_name,port_name,port_id)
	port_t			ServPort;
	netname_name_t	host_name;
	netname_name_t	port_name;
	port_t			*port_id;

kern_return_t netname_check_out(ServPort,port_name,signature)
	port_t			ServPort;
	netname_name_t	port_name;
	port_t			signature;

kern_return_t netname_version(ServPort,version)
	port_t			ServPort;
	netname_name_t	version;

.SH ARGUMENTS

.TP 15
.B ReplyPort
Port on which the interface will receive replies.
.TP 15
.B ServPort
port to the Network Name Server.
.TP 15
.B port_name
name of port to be looked up, checked in, or checked out.
.TP 15
.B signature
port that is used to protect the right to remove a name.
.TP 15
.B port_id
port that was looked up or is to be checked in or checked out.
.TP 15
.B version
version of the Network Name Server that is currently running.

.SH DESCRIPTION

.I netname_check_in
enters a port with the name 
.I port_name 
into the name-space of the local network server.
.I Signature 
is a port which is used to protect this name.
This same port must be presented on a
.I netname_check_out
call for that call to be able to remove the name from the name-space.
.I netname_check_in
may be called to check in a new port with the same name. In this case
the association with the old port will be lost and if a 
.I signature
was used on the original check_in the same signature must be used here.

.I netname_look_up
returns the value of the port named by 
.I port_name
by questioning the host named by the
.I host_name
argument.  Thus this call is a directed name look up.
The 
.I host_name
may be any of the host's official nick-names.
If it is null, then the local host is assumed.
If it is equal to "*", then a broadcast look up is performed.

.I netname_check_out
removes a port with the name 
.I port_name 
from the name-space of the local network server.
.I Signature 
must be the same port as the signature port presented to
.I netname_check_in
when this name was checked in.

.I netname_version
returns a string containing the version number of the
.I Network Name Server
that is running.

Note that the
.I ServPort
parameter to all the name service calls should be set to
.I name_server_port
in order to use the system
.I Network Name Server.
 
.SH FILES
<servers/netname.h>, <servers/netname_defs.h>

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP 25
.B NETNAME_SUCCESS
operation succeeded.
.TP 25
.B NETNAME_NOT_YOURS
the 
.I signature 
given to 
.I netname_check_out 
or to a second
.I netname_check_in
of the same name did not match the 
.I signature
with which the port was checked in.
.TP 25
.B NETNAME_NOT_CHECKED_IN
.I netname_look_up 
could not find the name at the given host.
.TP 25
.B NETNAME_NO_SUCH_HOST
the
.I host_name
argument to
.I netname_look_up
does not name a valid host.
.TP 25
.B NETNAME_HOST_NOT_FOUND
.I netname_look_up
could not reach the host named by
.I host_name
(for instance because it is down).
.TP 25
.B NETNAME_INVALID_PORT
.I  netname_check_in
found that the port you were trying to check in was PORT_NULL.
This can happen if the port died before it got checked in.

.SH SEE ALSO
.I  mach_init(3)

.SH BUGS
The version number is not always current.

.SH HISTORY
.TP
22-Oct-86  Robert D. Sansom (rds)
Updated for new host-directed name service.
.TP
29-Sept-86  Mary R. Thompson (mrt)
Created man page.  Server written by Dan Julin, Ed Zayas and Robert Sansom.
