.\"
.\" $Id: octarg.3,v 1.3 89/12/26 11:19:48 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	octarg.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:19:48  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 05-Dec-79  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created.
.\"
.TH OCTARG 3 12/5/79
.CM 1
.SH "NAME"
octarg, hexarg \- parse octal or hexadecimal argument or ask user
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
unsigned int octarg (ptr,brk,prompt,min,max,defalt);
.br
.B
unsigned int hexarg (ptr,brk,prompt,min,max,defalt);
.sp
.B
char **ptr,*brk,*prompt;
.br
.B
unsigned int min,max,defalt;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
octarg
and
.I
hexarg
attemp to parse an argument from a string, passing the
string pointer
.I
ptr
and the break character set
.I
brk
to the
.IR nxtarg (3)
routine.
If there is an argument parsed, and it is a legal
octal or hexadecimal value between
.I
min
and
.I
max,
then this value is returned by
.I
octarg
or
.I
hexarg.
If there is no argument, or it is not a legal value, then
an error message is printed and the remaining parameters
are passed into
.IR getoct (3)
or
.IR gethex (3),
whose value will be returned by
.I
octarg
or
.I
hexarg.
.sp
A legal octal value is a sequence of octal digits.
A legal hexadecimal
value is a sequence of digits "0" through "9", "a" through "f", or
"A" through "F", and optionally preceded by the (ignored) prefix
"0x" or "0X".
.sp
.I
octarg
and
.I
hexarg
are especially useful for parsing octal and hexadecimal values from
argument lists in programs using the command interpreter,
.IR ci (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR nxtarg (3), 
.IR getoct (3), 
.IR gethex (3), 
.IR atoo (3), 
.IR atoh (3), 
.IR ci (3)
