.\"
.\" $Id: okpassword.3,v 1.4 90/02/02 11:42:10 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	okpassword.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.4  90/02/02  11:42:10  bww
.\" 	Updated to describe new okpasswd() interface and deprecate old
.\" 	okpassword() interface.  From "[90/02/01  11:36:59  mja]" at CMU.
.\" 	[90/02/02            bww]
.\" 
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:20:13  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 26-Apr-85  Glenn Marcy (gm0w) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created.
.\"
.TH OKPASSWD 3 2/1/90
.CM 4
.SH "NAME"
okpasswd, okpassword \- check for insecure passwords
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.ft B
#include <libsys.h>
.sp
char *okpasswd(password, user, name, flags)
char *password;
char *user;
char *name;
int flags;
.ft R
.sp
.ft B
char *okpassword(password, user, name)
char *password;
char *user;
char *name;
.ft R
.sp
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Okpasswd
determines if the supplied
.I password
is insecure.
It performs the following sequence of checks.
.sp
First, the length of 
.I password
is checked.
Passwords consisting of less than 6 characters are considered insecure.
.sp
Next,
.I password
is checked for any occurance of the user-id
.I user,
or
any component of the personal name
.I name.
Such passwords are considered insecure.
.sp
Then,
.I password
is checked against a dictionary of common
passwords.  Using a commonly used password is considered insecure.
.sp
Finally, the version of the encryption algorithm used to encrypt
.I password
when it was last changed
is checked against the current version of the encryption
algorithm.
Using an obsolete encryption algorithm is considered insecure.
.sp
.I Okpasswd
returns NULL if all checks failed and
.I password
is considered secure.
Otherwise, it returns a pointer to an error string explaining why
.I password
is considered insecure.
.sp
The
.I flags
argument is normally specified as
.B OKPSWD_ALL
to indicate that all of the preceding checks should be made.
It may instead be specified as
.B OKPSWD_NOVERS
to suppress the encryption version check (such as by
.IR passwd (1)
when changing a password encrypted with an obsolete algorithm).
.sp
.I Okpassword
is an obsolete variant which is equivalent to calling
.I okpasswd
with 
.I flags
specified as
.B OKPSWD_ALL.
.SH "FILES"
/etc/passwd.dict
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR oklogin (3)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.I
Okpasswd
currently returns the following error messages:
.sp
.RS
Your password is insecure because it is less than 6 characters
.sp
Your password is insecure because it contains a part of your user id
.sp
Your password is insecure because it contains a part of your name
.sp
Your password is insecure because it is in the list of common passwords
.sp
Your password was encrypted using an obsolete algorithm
.RE
