.\"
.\" $Id: stablk.3,v 1.3 89/12/26 11:22:20 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	stablk.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:22:20  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 22-May-80  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Added check for exact match if more than one string matches
.\"	by stablk.
.\"
.\" 16-Apr-80  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Stablk now lists strings in multiple columns when possible.
.\"
.\" 05-Dec-79  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created.
.\"
.TH STABLK 3 5/22/80
.CM 2
.SH "NAME"
stablk \- string table lookup
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
int stablk (string,table,quiet);
.br
.B
char *string,**table;
.br
.B
int quiet;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Stablk
searches in the string table
.IR table ,
looking for a string whose initial characters match
.I
string.
If exactly one such string is found, then the index
of that string is returned.
If no such strings are found,
or if more than one string matches, then an error indication
is returned.
.sp
If no strings match
.I
string,
then \-1 will be returned.
Before returning, if
.I
quiet
is FALSE, then the user will be asked if he wants a list
of the strings in the table; if he says "yes", then a
list is printed.
.sp
If several strings match but one is an exact match while
the others are prefix matches, the index of the exact match
is returned.
Otherwise, when several strings match, \-2 will be returned.
Before
returning, if
.I
quiet
is FALSE, then the user will be asked if he wants a list
of matching strings; if he says "yes", then a list is printed.
.sp
The string 
.I table 
may be declared like this:
.sp
.nf
.RS
char *stable[] = {
	"first string",
	"second string",
	...
	"n-th string",
	0};
.RE
.fi
.sp
Note that the last entry of the table must be a zero.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR stlmatch (3)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
If nothing matches, \-1 is returned; if more than one string
matches, then \-2 is returned.
.SH "BUGS"
A maximum of 500 strings are allowed in the table.
