.\"
.\" $Id: stabsearch.3,v 1.3 89/12/26 11:22:30 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	stabsearch.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:22:30  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 11-Nov-83  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Stabsearch now detects an exact match with a string, even if it is
.\"	a substring of some other table entries, and returns without asking
.\"	you to select one of the matching strings.
.\"	Changes made by Leonard Hamey.
.\"
.\" 27-Jan-81  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Added better handling of long string tables.
.\"
.\" 15-Mar-80  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Stabsearch now detects a unique match with the initial characters
.\"	of a table entry, and returns the index without asking "Did you
.\"	mean X?"
.\"
.\" 05-Dec-79  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Based on Dave McKeown's string matching routines.
.\"
.TH STABSEARCH 3 11/11/83
.CM 3
.SH "NAME"
stabsearch \- best-match string table lookup
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
int stabsearch (string,table,quiet);
.br
.B
char *string,**table;
.br
.B
int quiet;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Stabsearch
searches in the string table
.IR table ,
looking for a string which best matches
.IR string .
If exactly one such string is found, then the index
of that string is returned.
If no such strings are found,
then \-1 is returned.
.sp
If
.I
quiet
is false and several strings match reasonably, the user is given
the option to approve or disapprove of the choice of matching
strings.  If he disapproves, then the few best matches are listed
and \-1 is returned.
.sp
If several strings match, then \-2 will be returned.
Before
returning, if
.I
quiet
is 0, then the user will be asked if he wants a list
of matching strings; if he says "yes", then a list is printed.
.sp
The string table may be declared like this:
.sp
.nf
.RS
char *stable[] = {
	"first string",
	"second string",
	...
	"n-th string",
	0};
.RE
.fi
.sp
Note that the last entry of the table must be a zero.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR stablk (3), 
.IR srchscore (3)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
If nothing matches at all, or if the user does not approve
the choice of the best matching string, \-1 is returned.
