.\"
.\" $Id: strarg.3,v 1.3 89/12/26 11:22:51 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	strarg.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:22:51  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 23-Jan-80  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Searcharg added.
.\"
.\" 05-Dec-79  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created.
.\"
.TH STRARG 3 1/23/80
.CM 1
.SH "NAME"
strarg, stabarg, searcharg \- parse string argument or ask user
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
char *strarg (ptr,brk,prompt,defalt,buffer);
.br
.B
char **ptr,*brk,*prompt,*defalt,*buffer;
.sp
.B
int stabarg (ptr,brk,prompt,table,defalt);
.br
.B
char **ptr,*brk,*prompt,**table,*defalt;
.sp
.B
int searcharg (ptr,brk,prompt,table,defalt);
.br
.B
char **ptr,*brk,*prompt,**table,*defalt;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Strarg
will attempt to parse an argument from a string, passing the
string pointer
.I
ptr
and the break character set
.I
brk
to the
.IR nxtarg (3)
routine.  If there is an argument parsed, then
it is copied into
.I
buffer
and
.I
strarg
returns
.I
buffer
as its value.
If there is no argument, then
.I
prompt, defalt,
and
.I
buffer
are passed to
.IR getstr (3),
whose value is returned by
.IR strarg .
.sp
.I
Stabarg
will attempt to parse an argument in the same way.
If there is
an argument, and it matches exactly one string in the string
array
.IR table ,
then the index of the matching string is returned by
.IR stabarg .
If there is no argument, or if it matches nothing in the 
.IR table
or many entries of the 
.IR table , 
then an error message is printed
and the remaining arguments
.RI ( prompt ,
.IR table ,
and
.IR defalt )
are passed into
.IR getstab (3).
The value returned by
.I
getstab
is then returned by
.IR stabarg .
.sp
.I
Searcharg
is just like
.IR stabarg ,
but performs a heuristic test for the best string match within the
.IR table , 
and allows the user to approve or disapprove this choice
if it is not a perfect match.  If the user does not approve the choice,
several other good matches are listed.
.sp
.IR Strarg , 
.IR stabarg ,
and
.I
searcharg
are especially useful for parsing strings from argument lists
in programs using the command interpreter,
.IR ci (3).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR nxtarg (3), 
.IR getstr (3), 
.IR getstab (3), 
.IR stlmatch (3), 
.IR ci (3)
.br
.IR getsearch (3), 
.IR stabsearch (3), 
.IR srchscore (3)
