.\"
.\" $Id: wantread.3,v 1.3 89/12/26 11:23:01 bww Exp $
.\"
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	wantread.3,v $
.\" Revision 1.3  89/12/26  11:23:01  bww
.\" 	Revised for 2.6 MSD release.
.\" 	[89/12/25            bww]
.\" 
.\" 13-Nov-86  Andi Swimmer (andi) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Revised for 4.3.
.\"
.\" 22-Oct-81  Fil Alleva (faa) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Added check for error return from getstr(3) to prevent infinite loop.
.\"
.\" 06-Dec-79  Steven Shafer (sas) at Carnegie-Mellon University
.\"	Created.
.\"
.TH WANTREAD 3 10/22/81
.CM 3
.SH "NAME"
wantread, fwantread \- open file for reading
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.B
#include <stdio.h>
.br
.B
#include <sys/file.h>
.sp
.B
int wantread (searchlist,filename,fullname,prompt);
.br
.B
char *searchlist,*filename,*fullname,*prompt;
.sp
.B
FILE *fwantread (searchlist,filename,fullname,prompt);
.br
.B
char *searchlist,*filename,*fullname,*prompt;
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.I
Wantread
attempts to open a file for input, asking the user for an
alternate 
.I filename
over and over again until a file is
successfully opened for reading.
.sp
.I
Searchlist
is a list of directories which may contain the file, with the
directory names separated by colons.
.I
Filename
is the name of the file the program wishes to open; if
.I
filename
is the null string, then the user will be asked immediately
for the name of a file to open.
When a file is opened, the complete filename is copied
into
.I
fullname,
which must be a string provided by the user.
.sp
If
.IR openp (3)
fails to open the desired file, then an error message is
printed along
with the message
.I
prompt,
and the user can type in an alternate 
.IR filename .
The new file
name is searched for using the same
.I
searchlist.
The user may also indicate that no file is acceptable; in this
case,
.I
wantread
will return an error indication.
.sp
.I
Fwantread
is the same as
.I
wantread,
but uses
.IR fopenp (3)
to open a buffered file, and returns a FILE pointer.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR openp (3), 
.IR fopenp (3), 
.IR wantwrite (3), 
.IR fwantwrite (3)
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.I
Wantread
returns \-1 on error; otherwise, the file descriptor of the
successfully opened file.
.sp
.I
Fwantread
returns 0 on error, or the FILE pointer of the successfully
fopened file.
.SH "BUGS"
.I
Fullname
must be long enough to hold the complete filename of the opened
file.
.sp
There should be a way to change the value of
.I
searchlist
if the search for a file is unsuccessful.
