.TH MD 8 1/19/87
.CM 1
.SH NAME
md \- create makefile dependencies from .d files created by -MD option to cc
.SH SYNOPSIS
md [-d][-f][-m][-u][-v][-x][-D] file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Basically, "md" does two things:

It processes the raw dependency files produced by the
.I cpp -MD
option.  There is one line in the file for every #include
encountered, but there are repeats and patterns
like .../dir1/../dir2 appear which should reduce to .../dir2.
.I Md
canonicalizes and flushes repeats from the dependency
list.  It also sorts the file names and "fills" them to a 78
character line.

.I Md
also updates a file with the dependency
information (a separate dependency file or the makefile itself), 
so the .d file can be thrown away (-d option)
This is done to save space.

.I Md
assumes that dependency
information  is sorted by .o file name and it
procedes to merge in (add/or replace [as appropriate])  the new
dependency lines that it has generated.  For time efficiency,
.I md 
assumes that any .d files it is given that were created
before the creation date of the "makefile" were processed
already.
.PP
The options are:
.TP							    
-d
delete the .d file after it is processed
.TP
-f
force an update of the dependencies
even though the dependency file is more recent than the .d file
(This implies that 
.I md 
has been run already.) This is the default.
.TP
-m  <filename>
specifies the dependency file to be upgraded.  If -m is not explicitly
specified then the dependencies are updated in either
.I makefile
or
.I Makefile.
.TP
-u <filename>
specifies a dependency file to be updated. If this file does not
initially exist it is created.
.TP
-v
set the verbose flag
.TP
-x
expunge old dependency info
.TP
-D
subswitch for debugging. Expert mode.
.i0
.DT
.PP
.SH FILES
Makefile, makefile
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mach_install(8),install(8),cc(1)
.SH HISTORY
.TP
09-Oct-86  Robert Baron (rvb) at Carnegie-Mellon University
Created.
