.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH MrmCloseHierarchy 3X
.SH NAME
\fBMrmCloseHierarchy\fP \- Closes a UID hierarchy.
.iX "MrmCloseHierarchy"
.iX "uil functions" "MrmCloseHierarchy"
.iX "uid hierarchy"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>
.br
.NX R "MRM function" "MrmCloseHierarchy"
.NX R "MrmCloseHierarchy" "definition"
.BI "Cardinal MrmCloseHierarchy(" "hierarchy_id" ")"
.in +5n
.br
.BI "MrmHierarchy " "hierarchy_id" ";"
.in -5n
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fBMrmCloseHierarchy\fP
function
.NX R "MrmCloseHierarchy" "description"
closes a UID hierarchy previously opened by
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP.
All files associated with the hierarchy are closed by the
Motif Resource Manager (MRM) and all associated memory is returned.
.IP \fIhierarchy_id\fP 1.0i
Specifies the ID of a previously opened UID hierarchy.
The
\fIhierarchy_id\fP
was returned in a previous call to
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP.
.br
.ne 15
.SH RETURN VALUE
.NX R "MrmSUCCESS"
.NX R "MrmBAD_HIERARCHY"
.NX R "MrmFAILURE"
This function returns one of these status return constants: 
.IP \fBMrmSUCCESS\fP 1.5i
The function executed successfully.
.IP \fBMrmBAD_HIERARCHY\fP
The hierarchy ID was invalid.
.IP \fBMrmFAILURE\fP
The function failed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy(3X)\fP
