.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH VendorShell 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBVendorShell \(em The VendorShell widget class.\fP
.iX "VendorShell"
.iX "widget class" "VendorShell"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.br
\&#include <X11/Shell.h>\fP
.sp 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
VendorShell is a Motif widget class used as a supporting superclass for 
all shell classes that are visible to the window manager and that are 
not override redirect.  It contains the subresources that describe the 
MWM-specific look and feel.  It also manages the MWM-specific communication 
needed by all VendorShell subclasses. See the \fBmwm\fR(1X) man page for more 
information.
.PP
Setting \fBXmNheight\fP, \fBXmNwidth\fP, or \fBXmNborderWidth\fP for
either a VendorShell or its child sets that resource to the same value
in both the parent and the child.
An application should always specify these resources for the child, not
the parent.
.PP
For a child of a VendorShell, setting \fBXmNx\fP or \fBXmNy\fP sets the
corresponding resource of the parent but does not change the child's
position relative to the parent.
\fBXtGetValues\fP for the child's \fBXmNx\fP or \fBXmNy\fP yields the
value of the corresponding resource in the parent.
The \fIx\fP and \fIy\fP coordinates of the child's upper left outside
corner relative to the parent's upper left inside corner are both zero
minus the value of \fBXmNborderWidth\fP.
.PP
Note that the \fIInter-Client Communication Conventions Manual\fP allows
a window manager to change or control the border width of a reparented
top-level window.
.sp 1
.SS "Classes"
VendorShell inherits behavior and resources from \fBCore\fP,
\fBComposite\fP, \fBShell\fP, and 
\fBWMShell\fP classes.
.IP
The class pointer is \fBvendorShellWidgetClass\fP.
.IP
The class name is \fBVendorShell\fP.
.sp 1
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the 
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
subresource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fBXmN\fP or
\fBXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined 
values for a subresource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fBXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given subresource can be
set at creation time (\fBC\fP),
set by using \fBXtSetValues\fP (\fBS\fP), 
retrieved by using \fBXtGetValues\fP (\fBG\fP), or is not applicable (\fBN/A\fP).
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
VendorShell Resource Set 
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNdefaultFontList	XmCDefaultFontList	XmFontList	dynamic	C
XmNdeleteResponse	XmCDeleteResponse	unsigned char	XmDESTROY	CSG
XmNkeyboardFocusPolicy	XmCKeyboardFocusPolicy	unsigned char	XmEXPLICIT	CSG
XmNmwmDecorations	XmCMwmDecorations	int	-1	CSG
XmNmwmFunctions	XmCMwmFunctions	int	-1	CSG
XmNmwmInputMode	XmCMwmInputMode	int	-1	CSG
XmNmwmMenu	XmCMwmMenu	String	NULL	CSG
XmNshellUnitType	XmCShellUnitType	unsigned char	XmPIXELS	CSG
XmNuseAsyncGeometry	XmCUseAsyncGeometry	Boolean	False	CSG
.TE
.sp 1
.IP \fBXmNdefaultFontList\fP
Specifies a default font list for its children.  This font list is used
whenever a font list is not specifically set for a Text, Label or Button
child of the VendorShell.
.IP \fBXmNdeleteResponse\fP
Determines what action the shell takes in response to a
\fBWM_DELETE_WINDOW\fP message.
The setting can be one of three values: \fBXmDESTROY\fP, \fBXmUNMAP\fP,
and \fBXmDO_NOTHING\fP.
The resource is scanned, and the appropriate action is taken, after the
\fBWM_DELETE_WINDOW\fP callback list (if any) that is registered with
the Protocol manager has been called.
.IP \fBXmNkeyboardFocusPolicy\fP
Determines allocation of keyboard focus within the widget hierarchy rooted 
at this shell.  The X keyboard focus must be directed to somewhere in the 
hierarchy for this client-side focus management to take effect.
Possible values are \fBXmEXPLICIT\fP, specifying a click-to-type policy,
and \fBXmPOINTER\fP, specifying a pointer-driven policy.
.IP \fBXmNmwmDecorations\fP
Includes the decoration flags (specific decorations to add or remove from 
the window manager frame) for \fBMWM_HINTS\fP.
.IP \fBXmNmwmFunctions\fP
Includes the function flags (specific window manager functions to 
include or exclude from the system menu) for \fBMWM_HINTS\fP.
.IP \fBXmNmwmInputMode\fP
Includes the input mode flag (application modal or system modal input focus 
constraints) for \fBMWM_HINTS\fP.
.IP \fBXmNmwmMenu\fP
Specifies the menu items that the Motif window manager should add to the end
of the system menu.  The string contains a list of items separated
by \fB\en\fP with the following format:
.IP
\fBlabel [mnemonic] [ accelerator] function\fP
.IP
If more than one item is specified, the items should be separated by a
newline character.
.IP \fBXmNshellUnitType\fP
Determines geometric resource interpretation.
The following values are allowed:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmPIXELS\fP \(em all values provided to the widget are treated as normal 
pixel values.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_MILLIMETERS\fP \(em all values provided to the widget are treated 
as 1/100 millimeter.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm1000TH_INCHES\fP \(em all values provided to the widget are treated as
1/1000 inch.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_POINTS\fP \(em all values provided to the widget are treated as 
1/100 point.  A point is a unit used in text processing 
applications and is defined as 1/72 inch.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_FONT_UNITS\fP \(em all values provided to the widget are
treated as 1/100 of a font unit.
The value to be used for the font unit is determined in one of three
ways:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
The application can use \fBXmSetFontUnits\fP to specify the font unit
values.
.IP \(bu 3
If the application has not called \fBXmSetFontUnits\fP, the font units
can be derived from a font.
The user specifies this font by using the font resource in a
defaults file or on the command line, or by using the standard command
line options \fB\-fn\fP and \fB\-font\fP.
.IP \(bu 3
If the application has not called \fBXmSetFontUnits\fP and the user has
not specified a font resource, the horizontal and vertical font units
default to 10.
.RE
.IP
A horizontal font unit is derived from a font as follows:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has an \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP property, the horizontal font
unit is the \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP property divided by 10.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP property but has a
\fBQUAD_WIDTH\fP property, the horizontal font unit is the
\fBQUAD_WIDTH\fP property.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP or \fBQUAD_WIDTH\fP property, the
horizontal font unit is the sum of the font struct's min_bounds.width
and max_bounds.width divided by 2.3.
.RE
.IP
.br
.ne 18
A vertical font unit is derived from a font as follows:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has a \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP property, the vertical font unit is
the \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP property divided by 1.8.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP property but has \fBPOINT_SIZE\fP
and \fBRESOLUTION_Y\fP properties, the vertical font unit is the product
of the \fBPOINT_SIZE\fP and \fBRESOLUTION_Y\fP properties divided by
1400.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP, \fBPOINT_SIZE\fP, or
\fBRESOLUTION_Y\fP properties, the vertical font unit is the sum of the
font struct's max_bounds.ascent and max_bounds.descent divided by 2.2.
.RE
.RE
.IP \fBXmNuseAsyncGeometry\fP
Specifies whether the geometry manager should wait for confirmation of a
geometry request to the window manager.
When the value of this resource is True, the geometry manager forces
\fBXmNwaitForWm\fP to False and \fBXmNwmTimeout\fP to 0, and it relies
on asynchronous notification.
When the value of this resource is False, \fBXmNwaitForWm\fP and
\fBXmNwmTimeout\fP are unaffected.
The default is False.
.sp 1
.SS "Inherited Resources"
VendorShell inherits behavior and resources from the following   
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
WMShell Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNbaseHeight	XmCBaseHeight	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNbaseWidth	XmCBaseWidth	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNheightInc	XmCHeightInc	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNiconMask	XmCIconMask	Pixmap	NULL	CSG
XmNiconPixmap	XmCIconPixmap	Pixmap	NULL	CSG
XmNiconWindow	XmCIconWindow	Window	NULL	CSG
XmNiconX	XmCIconX	int	\-1	CSG
XmNiconY	XmCIconY	int	\-1	CSG
XmNinitialState	XmCInitialState	int	NormalState	CSG
XmNinput	XmCInput	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNmaxAspectX	XmCMaxAspectX	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNmaxAspectY	XmCMaxAspectY	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNmaxHeight	XmCMaxHeight	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNmaxWidth	XmCMaxWidth	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
.tH
XmNminAspectX	XmCMinAspectX	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNminAspectY	XmCMinAspectY	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNminHeight	XmCMinHeight	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNminWidth	XmCMinWidth	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNtitle	XmCTitle	String	dynamic	CSG
XmNtitleEncoding	XmCTitleEncoding	Atom	XA_STRING	CSG
XmNtransient	XmCTransient	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNwaitForWm	XmCWaitForWm	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNwidthInc	XmCWidthInc	int	XtUnspecifiedShellInt	CSG
XmNwindowGroup	XmCWindowGroup	Window	dynamic	CSG
XmNwinGravity	XmCWinGravity	int	dynamic	CSG
XmNwmTimeout	XmCWmTimeout	int	5000 ms	CSG
.TE
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
Shell Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNallowShellResize	XmCAllowShellResize	Boolean	False	CG
XmNcreatePopupChildProc	XmCCreatePopupChildProc	(*)()	NULL	CSG
XmNgeometry	XmCGeometry	String	NULL	CSG
XmNoverrideRedirect	XmCOverrideRedirect	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNpopdownCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNpopupCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNsaveUnder	XmCSaveUnder	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNvisual	XmCVisual	Visual *	CopyFromParent	CSG
.TE
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
Composite Resource Set 
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNchildren	XmCReadOnly	WidgetList	NULL	G
XmNinsertPosition	XmCInsertPosition	(*)()	NULL	CSG
XmNnumChildren	XmCReadOnly	Cardinal	0	G
.TE
.sp 1
.in 0
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
Core Resource Set 
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	dynamic	CSG
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	1	CSG
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.tH
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.in
.sp 1 \"Adds space before the SS
.SS "Translations"
There are no translations for VendorShell.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBComposite(3X)\fP, \fBCore(3X)\fP, \fBmwm(1X)\fP,
\fBShell(3X)\fP, \fBWMShell(3X)\fP,
\fBXmActivateProtocol(3X)\fP, 
\fBXmActivateWMProtocol(3X)\fP, \fBXmAddProtocolCallback(3X)\fP,
\fBXmAddWMProtocolCallback(3X)\fP,
\fBXmAddProtocols(3X)\fP, 
\fBXmAddWMProtocols(3X)\fP,
\fBXmDeactivateProtocol(3X)\fP,
\fBXmDeactivateWMProtocol(3X)\fP,
\fBXmGetAtomName(3X)\fP,
\fBXmInternAtom(3X)\fP, 
\fBXmIsMotifWMRunning(3X)\fP, 
\fBXmRemoveProtocolCallback(3X)\fP,
\fBXmRemoveWMProtocolCallback(3X)\fP,
\fBXmRemoveProtocols(3X)\fP, 
\fBXmRemoveWMProtocols(3X)\fP, 
\fBXmSetProtocolHooks(3X)\fP,
and \fBXmSetWMProtocolHooks(3X)\fP.
