.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmAddProtocols 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmAddProtocols \(em A VendorShell function that adds the protocols
to the protocol manager and allocates the internal tables.\fP
.iX "XmAddProtocols"
.iX "VendorShell functions" "XmAddProtocols"
.iX "protocols"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.br
\&#include <X11/Protocols.h>
.sp 1
void XmAddProtocols (\fIshell, property, protocols, num_protocols\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIshell\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fIproperty\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fI* protocols\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fInum_protocols\fP;
.sp 1
void XmAddWMProtocols (\fIshell, protocols, num_protocols\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIshell\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fI* protocols\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fInum_protocols\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmAddProtocols\fP adds the protocols to the 
protocol manager and allocates the internal tables.
.PP
.ne 6
\fBXmAddWMProtocols\fP is a convenience interface.  
It calls \fBXmAddProtocols\fP 
with the property value set to the atom returned by
interning \fBWM_PROTOCOLS\fP.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIshell\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the widget with which the protocol property is associated.
.IP "\fIproperty\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the protocol property.
.IP "\fIprotocols\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the protocol \fBAtoms\fP (or \fBint\fR types cast to \fBAtom\fP).
.IP "\fInum_protocols\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the number of elements in \fIprotocols\fP.
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of VendorShell and its associated resources, see
\fBVendorShell(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBVendorShell(3X)\fP, \fBXmAddWMProtocols(3X)\fP,
and \fBXmInternAtom(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
