.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCommandGetChild 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmCommandGetChild \(em a Command function that is used to access a
component.\fP
.iX "XmCommandGetChild"
.iX "command functions" "XmCommandGetChild"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Command.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCommandGetChild (\fIwidget, child\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
  Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
  unsigned char	\fIchild\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCommandGetChild\fP is used to access a component within a Command.  The
parameters given to the function are the Command widget and a value
indicating which child to access.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the Command widget ID.
.IP "\fIchild\fP" .75i
Specifies a component within the Command.
The following are legal values for
this parameter:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_COMMAND_TEXT\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_PROMPT_LABEL\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_HISTORY_LIST\fP
.RE
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of Command and its associated resources, see
\fBXmCommand(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget ID of the specified Command child.
An application should not assume that the returned widget will be of any
particular class.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmCommand(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
