.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmConvertUnits 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fB
XmConvertUnits \(em a function that converts a value in one unit type
to another unit type.\fP
.iX "XmConvertUnits"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
int XmConvertUnits (\fIwidget, orientation, from_unit_type,
from_value, to_unit_type\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	int	\fIorientation\fP;
.br
	int	\fIfrom_unit_type\fP;
.br
	int	\fIfrom_value\fP;
.br
	int	\fIto_unit_type\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmConvertUnits\fP converts the value and returns it as the return value from
the function.  
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.2i
Specifies the widget for which the data is to be converted
.br
.ne 6
.IP "\fIorientation\fP"1.2i
Specifies whether the converter uses the horizontal or vertical screen
resolution when performing the conversions.  \fIorientation\fR can have values of
\fBXmHORIZONTAL\fP or \fBXmVERTICAL\fP.
.IP "\fIfrom_unit_type\fP"1.2i
Specifies the current unit type of the supplied value
.IP "\fIfrom_value\fP"1.2i
Specifies the value to be converted
.IP "\fIto_unit_type\fP"1.2i
Converts the value to the unit type specified
.sp 1
.PP
The parameters \fIfrom_unit_type\fP and \fIto_unit_type\fP can have the 
following values:
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmPIXELS\fP \(em
all values provided to the widget are treated as normal pixel values.  This
is the default for the resource.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_MILLIMETERS\fP \(em
all values provided to the widget are treated as 1/100 millimeter.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm1000TH_INCHES\fP \(em
all values provided to the widget are treated as 1/1000 inch.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_POINTS\fP \(em
all values provided to the widget are treated as 1/100 point.
A point is a unit typically used in text processing applications and
is defined as 1/72 inch.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_FONT_UNITS\fP \(em
all values provided to the widget are treated as 1/100 of a font unit.
The value to be used for the font unit is determined in one of three
ways:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
The application can use \fBXmSetFontUnits\fP to specify the font unit
values.
.IP \(bu 3
If the application has not called \fBXmSetFontUnits\fP, the font units
can be derived from a font.
The user specifies this font by using the font resource in a
defaults file or on the command line, or by using the standard command
line options \fB\-fn\fP and \fB\-font\fP.
.IP \(bu 3
If the application has not called \fBXmSetFontUnits\fP and the user has
not specified a font resource, the horizontal and vertical font units
default to 10.
.RE
.ne 4
.IP
A horizontal font unit is derived from a font as follows:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has an \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP property, the horizontal font
unit is the \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP property divided by 10.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP property but has a
\fBQUAD_WIDTH\fP property, the horizontal font unit is the
\fBQUAD_WIDTH\fP property.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP or \fBQUAD_WIDTH\fP property, the
horizontal font unit is the sum of the font struct's min_bounds.width
and max_bounds.width divided by 2.3.
.RE
.IP
A vertical font unit is derived from a font as follows:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has a \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP property, the vertical font unit is
the \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP property divided by 1.8.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP property but has \fBPOINT_SIZE\fP
and \fBRESOLUTION_Y\fP properties, the vertical font unit is the product
of the \fBPOINT_SIZE\fP and \fBRESOLUTION_Y\fP properties divided by
1400.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP, \fBPOINT_SIZE\fP, or
\fBRESOLUTION_Y\fP properties, the vertical font unit is the sum of the
font struct's max_bounds.ascent and max_bounds.descent divided by 2.2.
.RE
.RE
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the converted value.
If a NULL widget, incorrect \fIorientation\fR, or incorrect \fIunit_type\fP 
is supplied as parameter data, 0 is returned.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmSetFontUnits(3X)\fP
.sp 1
