.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateFileSelectionBox 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmCreateFileSelectionBox \(em the FileSelectionBox widget creation function.\fP
.iX "XmCreateFileSelectionBox"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateFileSelectionBox"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/FileSB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCreateFileSelectionBox (\fIparent, name, arglist, argcount\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCreateFileSelectionBox\fP creates an unmanaged FileSelectionBox.
A FileSelectionBox is used to select a file
and includes the following:
.IP \(bu 3
An editable text field for the directory mask
.IP \(bu 3
A scrolling list of file names 
.IP \(bu 3
An editable text field for the selected file 
.IP \(bu 3
Labels for the list and text fields
.IP \(bu 3
Four buttons
.PP
The default button labels are \fBOK\fP, \fBFilter\fP, \fBCancel\fP, and
\fBHelp\fP.  One additional \fBWorkArea\fP child may be added to the
FileSelectionBox after creation.
.PP
If the parent of the FileSelectionBox is a DialogShell, use \fBXtManageChild\fP
to pop up the FileSelectionDialog (passing the 
FileSelectionBox as the widget parameter);
use \fBXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" .75i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of FileSelectionBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the FileSelectionBox widget ID.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
