.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateFileSelectionDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmCreateFileSelectionDialog \(em the FileSelectionBox FileSelectionDialog
convenience creation function.\fP
.iX "XmCreateFileSelectionDialog"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateFileSelectionDialog"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/FileSB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCreateFileSelectionDialog (\fIparent, name, arglist, argcount\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCreateFileSelectionDialog\fP is a convenience creation function that
creates a DialogShell and an unmanaged FileSelectionBox child of the
DialogShell.  
A FileSelectionDialog selects a file.
It includes the following:  
.IP \(bu 3
An editable text field for the directory mask
.IP \(bu 3
A scrolling list of filenames
.IP \(bu 3
An editable text field for the selected file
.IP \(bu 3
Labels for the list and text fields
.IP \(bu 3
Four buttons
.PP
.ne 6
The default button labels are:
\fBOK\fP, \fBFilter\fP, \fBCancel\fP, and \fBHelp\fP.  One additional
\fBWorkArea\fP child may be added to the FileSelectionBox after creation.
.PP
Use \fBXtManageChild\fP to pop up the FileSelectionDialog (passing the 
FileSelectionBox
as the widget parameter); use \fBXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" .75i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.PP
For a complete definition of FileSelectionBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the FileSelectionBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
