.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateQuestionDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fB
XmCreateQuestionDialog \(em the MessageBox QuestionDialog
convenience creation function.\fP
.iX "XmCreateQuestionDialog"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateQuestionDialog"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/MessageB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCreateQuestionDialog (\fIparent, name, arglist, argcount\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCreateQuestionDialog\fP is a convenience creation function that
creates a DialogShell and an unmanaged MessageBox child of the DialogShell.
A QuestionDialog is used to get the answer to a question from the user.
It includes a symbol, a message, and
three buttons.   The default symbol is a question mark.  The default button
labels are \fBOK\fP, \fBCancel\fP, and \fBHelp\fP.
.PP
Use \fBXtManageChild\fP to pop up the QuestionDialog (passing the MessageBox
as the widget parameter); use \fBXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" .75i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.PP
For a complete definition of MessageBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the MessageBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
