.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreatePromptDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmCreatePromptDialog \(em the SelectionBox PromptDialog
convenience creation function.\fP
.iX "XmCreatePromptDialog"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreatePromptDialog"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/SelectioB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCreatePromptDialog (\fIparent, name, arglist, argcount\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCreatePromptDialog\fP is a convenience creation function that creates
a DialogShell and an unmanaged SelectionBox child of the DialogShell.
A PromptDialog prompts the user for text input.
It includes a message, a text input region, and three managed buttons.  
The default button labels are \fBOK\fP, \fBCancel\fP, and \fBHelp\fP.  
An additional button, with \fBApply\fP as the default label, is created
unmanaged; it may be explicitly managed if needed.  One additional 
\fBWorkArea\fP child may be added to the SelectionBox after creation.
.PP
\fBXmCreatePromptDialog\fP forces the value of the SelectionBox resource
\fBXmNdialogType\fP to \fBXmDIALOG_PROMPT\fP.
.PP
Use \fBXtManageChild\fP to pop up the PromptDialog (passing the SelectionBox
as the widget parameter); use \fBXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.br
.ne 4
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" .75i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.PP
For a complete definition of SelectionBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the SelectionBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
