.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmFileSelectionBoxGetChild 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmFileSelectionBoxGetChild \(em a FileSelectionBox function that
is used to access a component.\fP
.iX "XmFileSelectionBoxGetChild"
.iX "FileSelectionBox functions" "XmFileSelectionBoxGetChild"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/FileSB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmFileSelectionBoxGetChild (\fIwidget, child\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	unsigned char	\fIchild\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmFileSelectionBoxGetChild\fP is used to access a component within a
FileSelectionBox.  The parameters given to the function are the 
FileSelectionBox widget and a value indicating which child to access.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the FileSelectionBox widget ID.
.IP "\fIchild\fP" .75i
Specifies a component within the FileSelectionBox.  The following are legal
values for this parameter:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_APPLY_BUTTON\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_CANCEL_BUTTON\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_DEFAULT_BUTTON\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_DIR_LIST\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_DIR_LIST_LABEL\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_FILTER_LABEL\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_FILTER_TEXT\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_HELP_BUTTON\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_LIST\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_LIST_LABEL\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_OK_BUTTON\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_SELECTION_LABEL\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_SEPARATOR\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_TEXT\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_WORK_AREA\fP
.RE
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of FileSelectionBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget ID of the specified FileSelectionBox child.
An application should not assume that the returned widget will be of any
particular class.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmFileSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
