.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmFontListAdd 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmFontListAdd \(em a compound string function that creates a new font list.\fP
.iX "XmFontListAdd"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmFontListAdd"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
XmFontList XmFontListAdd (\fIoldlist, font, charset\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.75i
.br
	XmFontList	\fIoldlist\fP;
.br
	XFontStruct	\fI* font\fP;
.br
	XmStringCharSet	\fIcharset\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmFontListAdd\fP creates a new font list consisting of the contents of
the \fIoldlist\fP and the new font-list element being added.  This
function deallocates the \fIoldlist\fP after extracting the required
information; therefore, do not reference \fIoldlist\fP thereafter.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIoldlist\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to the font list to which an entry will be added.
.IP "\fIfont\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to a font structure for which the new font list is
generated.  This is the structure returned by the XLib \fBXLoadQueryFont\fP
function.
.IP "\fIcharset\fP" .75i
Specifies the character set identifier for the font.
This can be \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, but this value does not
comply with the AES, and it may be removed in future versions of Motif.
If the value is \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, the routine derives the
character set from the current language environment.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns NULL if \fIoldlist\fP is NULL; returns \fIoldlist\fP if
\fIfont\fP or \fIcharset\fP is NULL; otherwise, returns a new font list.
.sp 1
.na
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmFontListCreate(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.ad
