.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmGadget 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmGadget \(em the Gadget widget class.\fP
.iX "XmGadget"
.iX "widget class" "Gadget"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <Xm/Xm.h>\fP
.sp 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
Gadget is a widget class used as 
a supporting superclass for other
gadget classes.  It handles shadow-border drawing and highlighting, traversal 
activation and deactivation, and various callback lists needed by 
gadgets.
.PP
The color and pixmap resources defined by XmManager are directly used by
gadgets.  If \fBXtSetValues\fP is used 
to change one of the resources for a manager
widget, all of the gadget children within the manager also change.
.sp 1
.SS "Classes"
Gadget inherits behavior and resources from \fBObject\fP and 
\fBRectObj\fP classes.
.IP
The class pointer is \fBxmGadgetClass\fP.
.IP
The class name is \fBXmGadget\fP.
.sp 1
.SS "New Resources"
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the 
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fBXmN\fP or
\fBXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined 
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fBXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (\fBC\fP),
set by using \fBXtSetValues\fP (\fBS\fP), 
retrieved by using \fBXtGetValues\fP (\fBG\fP), or is not applicable (\fBN/A\fP).
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
XmGadget Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNhelpCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNhighlightOnEnter	XmCHighlightOnEnter	Boolean	False	CSG
XmNhighlightThickness	XmCHighlightThickness	Dimension	2	CSG
XmNnavigationType	XmCNavigationType	XmNavigationType	XmNONE	G
XmNshadowThickness	XmCShadowThickness	Dimension	2	CSG
XmNtraversalOn	XmCTraversalOn	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNunitType	XmCUnitType	unsigned char	dynamic	CSG
XmNuserData	XmCUserData	Pointer	NULL	CSG
.TE
.sp 1
.br
.ne 8
.IP "\fBXmNhelpCallback\fP"
Specifies the list of callbacks that is called when the help key sequence
is pressed.  The reason sent by the callback is \fBXmCR_HELP\fP.
.IP "\fBXmNhighlightOnEnter\fP"
Specifies if the highlighting rectangle is drawn when the cursor moves
into the widget.
If the shell's focus policy is \fBXmEXPLICIT\fP, this resource is
ignored, and the widget is highlighted when it has the focus.
If the shell's focus policy is \fBXmPOINTER\fP and if this resource is
True, the highlighting rectangle is drawn when the the cursor moves into
the widget.
If the shell's focus policy is \fBXmPOINTER\fP and if this resource is
False, the highlighting rectangle is not drawn when the the cursor moves
into the widget.
The default is False.
.IP "\fBXmNhighlightThickness\fP"
Specifies the thickness of the highlighting rectangle.
.IP "\fBXmNnavigationType\fP"
Controls whether the Widget is a navigation group.
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmNONE\fP indicates that the Widget
is not a navigation group.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTAB_GROUP\fP indicates that the Widget
is included automatically in keyboard navigation,
unless \fBXmAddTabGroup\fP has been called.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmSTICKY_TAB_GROUP\fP indicates that the Widget
is included automatically in keyboard navigation,
even if \fBXmAddTabGroup\fP has been called.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmEXCLUSIVE_TAB_GROUP\fP indicates that the Widget
is included explicitly in keyboard navigation by the application.
With \fBXmEXCLUSIVE_TAB_GROUP\fP, traversal of widgets within the group
is based on the order of children.
.RE
.IP
If the gadget's parent is a shell, the default is \fBXmTAB_GROUP\fP;
otherwise, the default is \fBXmNONE\fP.
.br
.ne 8
.IP "\fBXmNshadowThickness\fP"
Specifies the size of the drawn border shadow.
.IP "\fBXmNtraversalOn\fP"
Specifies traversal activation for this gadget.
.IP "\fBXmNunitType\fP"
Provides the basic support for resolution independence.
It defines the type of units a widget uses with sizing and
positioning resources.
If the widget's parent is a subclass of \fBXmManager\fP and if the
\fBXmNunitType\fP resource is not explicitly set, it defaults to the
unit type of the parent widget.
If the widget's parent is not a subclass of \fBXmManager\fP, the
resource has a default unit type of \fBXmPIXELS\fP.
.IP
\fBXmNunitType\fP can have the following values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmPIXELS\fP \(em all values provided to the widget are treated as normal 
pixel values.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_MILLIMETERS\fP \(em all values provided to the widget are treated 
as 1/100 millimeter.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm1000TH_INCHES\fP \(em all values provided to the widget are treated as
1/1000 inch.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_POINTS\fP \(em all values provided to the widget are treated as 
1/100 point.  A point is a unit used in text processing 
applications and is defined as 1/72 inch.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_FONT_UNITS\fP \(em all values provided to the widget are
treated as 1/100 of a font unit.
The value to be used for the font unit is determined in one of three
ways:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
The application can use \fBXmSetFontUnits\fP to specify the font unit
values.
.IP \(bu 3
If the application has not called \fBXmSetFontUnits\fP, the font units
can be derived from a font.
The user specifies this font by using the font resource in a
defaults file or on the command line, or by using the standard command
line options \fB\-fn\fP and \fB\-font\fP.
.br
.ne 8
.IP \(bu 3
If the application has not called \fBXmSetFontUnits\fP and the user has
not specified a font resource, the horizontal and vertical font units
default to 10.
.RE
.IP
A horizontal font unit is derived from a font as follows:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has an \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP property, the horizontal font
unit is the \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP property divided by 10.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP property but has a
\fBQUAD_WIDTH\fP property, the horizontal font unit is the
\fBQUAD_WIDTH\fP property.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBAVERAGE_WIDTH\fP or \fBQUAD_WIDTH\fP property, the
horizontal font unit is the sum of the font struct's min_bounds.width
and max_bounds.width divided by 2.3.
.RE
.IP
A vertical font unit is derived from a font as follows:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has a \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP property, the vertical font unit is
the \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP property divided by 1.8.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP property but has \fBPOINT_SIZE\fP
and \fBRESOLUTION_Y\fP properties, the vertical font unit is the product
of the \fBPOINT_SIZE\fP and \fBRESOLUTION_Y\fP properties divided by
1400.
.IP \(bu 3
If the font has no \fBPIXEL_SIZE\fP, \fBPOINT_SIZE\fP, or
\fBRESOLUTION_Y\fP properties, the vertical font unit is the sum of the
font struct's max_bounds.ascent and max_bounds.descent divided by 2.2.
.RE
.RE
.IP "\fBXmNuserData\fP"
Allows the application to attach any necessary specific data to the gadget.  
This is an internally unused resource.  
.sp 1
.br
.ne 10
.SS "Inherited Resources"
Gadget inherits the following resources from the named   
superclass.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
RectObj Resource Set 
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	0	CSG
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
Object Resource Set 
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
.TE
.br
.ne 12
.sp 1 \"Adds space before the SS
.SS "Behavior"
Gadgets cannot have translations associated with them.  
Because of this, a Gadget's behavior is determined by the Manager
widget into which the Gadget is placed.  If focus is on a Gadget,
events are passed to the Gadget by its Manager.
.br
.ne 4
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBObject(3X)\fP, \fBRectObj(3X)\fP, and \fBXmManager(3X)\fP.
