.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmGetPixmap 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmGetPixmap \(em a pixmap caching function that generates a pixmap,
stores it in a pixmap cache, and returns the pixmap.\fP
.iX "XmGetPixmap"
.iX "pixmaps"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Pixmap XmGetPixmap (\fIscreen, image_name, foreground, background\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Screen	\fI* screen\fP;
.br
	char	\fI* image_name\fP;
.br
	Pixel	\fIforeground\fP;
.br
	Pixel	\fIbackground\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmGetPixmap\fP
uses the parameter data to perform a lookup in the
pixmap cache to see if a pixmap has already been generated that
matches the data.  If one is found, a reference count is incremented
and the pixmap is returned.  Applications should use \fBXmDestroyPixmap\fP
when the pixmap is no longer needed.
.PP
If a pixmap is not found, \fIimage_name\fP is used to perform a lookup in
the image cache.  If an image is found, it is used to generate the pixmap,
which is then cached and returned.  
.PP
If an image is not found, the
\fIimage_name\fP is used as a filename, and a search is made for 
an \fBX10\fP or \fBX11\fP bitmap file.  If it is found, the file is
read, converted into an image, and cached in the image cache.  The image
is then used to generate a pixmap, which is cached and returned.
.PP
If \fIimage_name\fP begins with a slash character (\fB/\fP), it is taken
to be a full pathname specification and is the only pathname searched to
find the file.
Otherwise, several paths are searched.
The user can specify an environment variable \fBXBMLANGPATH\fP, which is
used to generate one set of paths.
If \fBXBMLANGPATH\fP is not set but the environment variable
\fBXAPPLRESDIR\fP is set, the following path names are searched:
.ta 1i
\fB
	%B
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%L/bitmaps/%B
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/%l/bitmaps/%B
.br
	$XAPPLRESDIR/bitmaps/%B
.br
	$HOME/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%B
.br
	/usr/include/X11/bitmaps/%B
.fi
\fP
.PP
If neither \fBXBMLANGPATH\fP nor \fBXAPPLRESDIR\fP is set, the
following path names are searched:
.ta 1i
\fB
	%B
.br
	$HOME/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	$HOME/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	$HOME/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	$HOME/%L/bitmaps/%B
.br
	$HOME/%l/bitmaps/%B
.br
	$HOME/bitmaps/%B
.br
	$HOME/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%N/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%L/bitmaps/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/%l/bitmaps/%B
.br
	/usr/lib/X11/bitmaps/%B
.br
	/usr/include/X11/bitmaps/%B
.fi
\fP
.PP
The following substitutions are used in these paths:
.IP "\fB%B\fP" 0.5i
The image name, from the \fIimage_name\fP argument.
.IP "\fB%N\fP" 0.5i
The class_name of the application.
.IP "\fB%L\fP" 0.5i
The value of the \fBLANG\fP environment variable.
.IP "\fB%l\fP" 0.5i
The language component of the \fBLANG\fP environment variable.
.PP
Parameter descriptions are listed below:
.sp 1
.IP "\fIscreen\fP" 1i
Specifies the display screen on which the pixmap is to 
be drawn.
The depth of the pixmap is the default depth for this screen.
.IP "\fIimage_name\fP" 1i
Specifies the name of the image to be used to 
generate the pixmap
.IP "\fIforeground\fP" 1i
Combines the image with the \fIforeground\fP color to create the pixmap
if the image referenced is a bit-per-pixel image
.IP "\fIbackground\fP" 1i
Combines the image with the \fIbackground\fP color to create the pixmap
if the image referenced is a bit-per-pixel image
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a pixmap when successful; returns \fBXmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP\fP 
if the image corresponding to the \fIimage_name\fP cannot be found.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmDestroyPixmap(3X)\fP, \fBXmInstallImage(3X)\fP, and 
\fBXmUninstallImage(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
