.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmListGetMatchPos 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmListGetMatchPos \(em a List function that returns all 
instances of an item in the list.\fP
.iX "XmListGetMatchPos"
.iX "List functions" "XmListGetMatchPos"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/List.h>
.sp 1
Boolean XmListGetMatchPos (\fIwidget, item, position_list, position_count\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	XmString	\fIitem\fP;
.br
	int	**\fIposition_list\fP;
.br
	int	*\fIposition_count\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmListGetMatchPos\fP is a Boolean function that returns an array of
positions where a specified item is found in a List.
.br
.ne 5
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the ID of the List widget.
.IP "\fIitem\fP" .75i
Specifies the item to search for.
.IP "\fIposition_list\fP" .75i
Returns an array of positions at which the item occurs in the List.
The position of the first item in the list is 1; the position of the
second item is 2; and so on.
When the return value is TRUE, \fBXmListGetMatchPos\fP allocates
memory for this array.
The caller is responsible for freeing this memory.
.IP "\fIposition_count\fP" .75i
Returns the number of elements in the \fIposition_list\fP.
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of List and its associated resources, see
\fBXmList(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns TRUE if the specified item is present in the list, and
FALSE if it is not.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmList(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
