.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmScrollBarGetValues 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fB
XmScrollBarGetValues \(em a ScrollBar function that returns the ScrollBar's
increment values.\fP
.iX "XmScrollBarGetValues"
.iX "ScrollBar functions" "XmScrollBarGetValues"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/ScrollBar.h>
.sp 1
void \fBXmScrollBarGetValues\fP (\fIwidget, value_return, 
slider_size_return, increment_return,
.br
.ti 2.25i
page_increment_return\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.75i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	int	\fI* value_return\fP;
.br
	int	\fI* slider_size_return\fP;
.br
	int	\fI* increment_return\fP;
.br
	int	\fI* page_increment_return\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmScrollBarGetValues\fP returns the 
the ScrollBar's increment values.
The scroll region is overlaid with a
slider bar that is adjusted in size and position using the main ScrollBar or
set slider function attributes.
.sp 1
.ne 6
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.75i
Specifies the ScrollBar widget ID.
.IP "\fIvalue_return\fP"1.75i	
Returns the ScrollBar's slider position between the
\fBXmNminimum\fP and \fBXmNmaximum\fP resources.
.IP "\fIslider_size_return\fP" 1.75i
Returns the size of the slider as a value between zero and the absolute
value of \fBXmNmaximum\fP minus \fBXmNminimum\fP.  The size of the slider
varies, depending on how much of the slider scroll area it represents.
.IP "\fIincrement_return\fP" 1.75i
Returns the amount of increment and decrement.
.IP "\fIpage_increment_return\fP" 1.75i
Returns the amount of page increment and decrement.
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of ScrollBar and its associated resources, see
\fBXmScrollBar(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the ScrollBar's increment values.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmScrollBar(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
