.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringCompare 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringCompare \(em a compound string function that compares two strings.\fP
.iX "XmStringCompare"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringCompare"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Boolean XmStringCompare (\fIs1, s2\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	XmString	\fIs1\fP;
.br
	XmString	\fIs2\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringCompare\fP returns a Boolean value indicating the results of a 
semantically equivalent comparison of two compound strings.  
.PP
Semantically equivalent means that the strings have the
same text components, directions, and separators.  If character sets
are specified, they must be equal as well.
In general, if two compound strings are created with the same (char *)
string using \fBXmStringCreateSimple\fP in the same language
environment, the compound strings compare as equal.
If two compound strings are created with the same (char *) string and
the same character set
other than \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP
using \fBXmStringCreate\fP, the strings compare as equal.
The result of comparing a compound string created with
\fBXmStringCreate\fP
against a compound string created with
\fBXmStringCreateSimple\fP
is undefined.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIs1\fP" .75i
Specifies a compound string to be compared with \fIs2\fP
.IP "\fIs2\fP" .75i
Specifies a compound string to be compared with \fIs1\fP
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if two compound strings are equivalent.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and
\fBXmStringCreateSimple(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
