.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringCreateLtoR 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringCreateLtoR \(em a compound string function that creates
a compound string.\fP
.iX "XmStringCreateLtoR"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringCreateLtoR"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
XmString XmStringCreateLtoR (\fItext, charset\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.75i
.br
	char	\fI* text\fP;
.br
	XmStringCharSet	\fIcharset\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringCreateLtoR\fP creates a compound
string with two components: text and a character set.
This function imposes the semantic of scanning for \fB\en\fP
characters in the text.  When one is found, the text up to that point
is put into a segment followed by a separator component.  No final
separator component is appended to the end of the compound string.
The direction defaults to left-to-right.
This function assumes that the encoding is single octet
rather than double octet per character of text.  
.sp 1
.IP "\fItext\fP" .75i
Specifies a null-terminated string to be used as the text component of
the compound string.
.br
.ne 6
.IP "\fIcharset\fP" .75i
Specifies the character set identifier to be associated with the given
text.
This can be \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, but this value does not
comply with the AES, and it may be removed in future versions of Motif.
If the value is \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, the routine derives the
character set from the current language environment.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new compound string.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
