.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringSegmentCreate 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringSegmentCreate \(em a compound string function that creates a
compound string.\fP
.iX "XmStringSegmentCreate"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringSegmentCreate"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
XmString XmStringSegmentCreate (\fItext, charset, direction, separator\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.75i
.br
	char	\fI* text\fP;
.br
	XmStringCharSet	\fIcharset\fP;
.br
	XmStringDirection	\fIdirection\fP;
.br
	Boolean	\fIseparator\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringSegmentCreate\fP is a high-level function that assembles a compound
string consisting of a character set identifier, a direction component,
a text component, and an optional separator component.
.br
.ne 10
.sp 1
.IP "\fItext\fP" .75i
Specifies a null-terminated string to be used as the text component of
the compound string.
.IP "\fIcharset\fP" .75i
Specifies the character set identifier to be associated with the text.
This can be \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, but this value does not
comply with the AES, and it may be removed in future versions of Motif.
If the value is \fBXmSTRING_DEFAULT_CHARSET\fP, the routine derives the
character set from the current language environment.
.IP "\fIdirection\fP" .75i
Specifies the direction of the text.
.IP "\fIseparator\fP" .75i
Specifies separator addition.  If False, the compound string does not
have a separator at the end.  If True, a separator immediately
follows the text component.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new compound string.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
