.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringGetNextSegment 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringGetNextSegment \(em a compound string function that fetches the
octets in the next segment of a compound string.\fP
.iX "XmStringGetNextSegment"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringGetNextSegment"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Boolean XmStringGetNextSegment (\fIcontext, text, charset,
direction, separator\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 2i
.br
	XmStringContext	\fIcontext\fP;
.br
	char	\fI** text\fP;
.br
	XmStringCharSet	\fI* charset\fP;
.br
	XmStringDirection	\fI* direction\fP;
.br
	Boolean	\fI* separator\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringGetNextSegment\fP 
fetches the octets in the next segment; repeated calls
fetch sequential segments.  The \fItext\fP, \fIcharset\fP, and 
\fIdirection\fP of the fetched segment are returned each time.  A Boolean
status is returned to indicate whether a valid segment was successfully
parsed.
.br
.ne 7
.sp 1
.IP "\fIcontext\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies the string context structure which was allocated by the
\fBXmStringInitContext\fP function.
.IP "\fItext\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies a pointer to a null terminated string.
.IP "\fIcharset\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies a pointer to the character set identifier associated with the
text.
.IP "\fIdirection\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies a pointer to the direction of the text.
.IP "\fIseparator\fP" 1.25i 
Specifies whether the next component of the compound string is a
separator.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if a valid segment is found.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and \fBXmStringInitContext(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
