.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextFieldCut 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmTextFieldCut \(em a TextField function that copies the primary selection to the clipboard and deletes the selected text\fP
.iX "XmTextFieldCut"
.iX "TextField functions" "XmTextFieldCut"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/TextF.h>
.sp 1
Boolean XmTextFieldCut (\fIwidget, time\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	Time	\fItime\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmTextFieldCut\fP copies the primary selected text to the clipboard and
then deletes the primary selected text.
This routine also calls the widget's \fBXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP and
\fBXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP callbacks if there is a selection.
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the TextField widget ID.
.IP "\fItime\fP" .75i
Specifies the time at which the selection value is to be modified.  This
should be the time of the event which triggered this request. 
.PP
.ne 5
For a complete definition of TextField and its associated resources, see
\fBXmTextField(3X)\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
This function returns False if the primary selection is NULL, if the
\fIwidget\fP doesn't own the primary selection, or if the function is
unable to gain ownership of the clipboard selection.  Otherwise, it
returns True.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmTextField(3X)\fP.
