.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmToggleButtonGadgetSetState 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmToggleButtonGadgetSetState \(em a ToggleButtonGadget function that
sets or changes the current state.\fP
.iX "XmToggleButtonGadgetSetState"
.iX "ToggleButtonGadget functions" "XmToggleButtonGadgetSetState"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/ToggleBG.h>
.sp 1
void XmToggleButtonGadgetSetState (\fIwidget, state, notify\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	Boolean	\fIstate\fP;
.br
	Boolean	\fInotify\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmToggleButtonGadgetSetState\fP sets or changes the ToggleButtonGadget's 
current state.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the ToggleButtonGadget widget ID.
.IP "\fIstate\fP" .75i
Specifies a Boolean value that indicates whether the ToggleButtonGadget state is
selected or unselected.  If True, the button state is selected; 
if False, the button state is unselected.
.br
.ne 10
.IP "\fInotify\fP" .75i
Indicates whether \fBXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP is called; 
it can be either True or False.
When this argument is True and the ToggleButtonGadget is a child of a
RowColumn widget whose \fBXmNradioBehavior\fP is True, selecting the
ToggleButtonGadget causes other ToggleButton and ToggleButtonGadget
children of the RowColumn to be unselected.
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of ToggleButtonGadget and 
its associated resources, see \fBXmToggleButtonGadget(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmToggleButtonGadget(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
