.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTrackingLocate 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmTrackingLocate \(em a Toolkit function that provides a modal
interaction.\fP
.iX "XmTrackingLocate"
.iX "Toolkit functions" "XmTrackingLocate"
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmTrackingLocate (\fIwidget, cursor, confine_to\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	Cursor	\fIcursor\fP;
.br
	Boolean	\fIconfine_to\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmTrackingLocate\fP provides a modal interface for selection of a
component.
It is intended to support context help.
The function grabs the pointer and returns the widget in which a button
press occurs.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the widget ID of a widget to use as the basis of the modal
interaction.  That is, the widget within which the interaction must
occur, usually a top level shell.
.br
.ne 15
.IP "\fIcursor\fP" .75i
Specifies the cursor to be used for the pointer during the interaction.
This is a standard X cursor name.
.IP "\fIconfine_to\fP" .75i
Specifies whether or not the cursor should be confined to \fIwidget\fP
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget in which a button press occurs.
If the window in which a button press occurs is not a widget, the
function returns NULL.
