.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmUpdateDisplay 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmUpdateDisplay \(em a function that processes all
pending exposure events immediately.\fP
.iX "XmUpdateDisplay"
.sp 1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvoid XmUpdateDisplay\fP (\fIwidget\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
\fB	Widget	\fP\fIwidget\fR;
.fi
.sp 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmUpdateDisplay\fP provides the application with a mechanism for forcing all
pending exposure events to be removed from the input queue and processed immediately.
When a user selects a button within a MenuPane, the MenuPanes are
unposted and then any activation callbacks registered by the application
are invoked.  If one of the callbacks performs a time-consuming action,
the portion of the application window that was covered by the MenuPanes
will not have been redrawn; normal exposure processing does not occur until
all of the callbacks have been invoked.  If the 
application writer  suspects that a callback
will take a long time, then the callback may choose to invoke 
\fBXmUpdateDisplay\fP before starting its time-consuming operation.
This function is also useful any time a transient window, such as a dialog box, is unposted;
callbacks are invoked before normal exposure processing can occur.
.IP \fIwidget\fP 1.2i
Specifies any widget or gadget.
