.TH MACH_INTRO 1 1/19/87
.CM 4
.SH NAME
mach \- introduction to Mach documentation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B man mach

.SH DESCRIPTION
Documentation for the Mach operating system can be found in two
places: /usr/mach/man which contains the subdirectories for
man pages and cat pages (pre-formatted man pages); and
/usr/mach/doc which contains .ps and .doc files of various
manuals. The source .mss files for these manuals are found
in /usr/man/src/doc subdirectories. 
.br
.sp 1
The manuals that are currently available in /usr/mach/doc are:
.br
.sp 1
.B manual.ps
is the Mach Kernel Interface Manual. It contains some brief 
introductory material to Mach and documentation on the calling
sequence, arguments and function of all the user calls to the 
kernel. The c header files for these calls are in mach.h.
.br
.sp 1
.B mach_bib.ps
is a bibliography of Mach papers and docments.
.br
.sp 1
.B Mig.ps 
is the programmers manual for mig, the Mach Interface Generator.
mig takes a specification of a message interface to a server and generates
code to export a remote procedure call interface to the server. 
.br
.sp 1
.B Threads.ps
describes a C package for parallel programming which provides:
.na
   multiple threads of control for parallelism,
   shared variables,
   mutual exclusion for critical sections, and
   condition variables for synchronization of threads.
.br
.sp 1
.B envmgr.ps
describes the Environment Manger, a server to allow the sharing
of ports or variable betweens tasks.
.br
.sp 1
.B machsys.ps
A Programmer's Guide to the Mach System Calls is a tutorial document on how
to program with at the kernel interface level.
.br
.sp 1
.B machuse.ps
A Programmer's Guide to the Mach User Environmnet is a tutorial document
on how to program using the Mach environment.
.br
.sp 1
.B netmsgserver.ps
is a description of the implementation of the Network Server
.br
.SH FILES
/usr/mach/man, man1, man2, man3, cat1, cat2, cat3
.br
/usr/mach/doc

.SH HISTORY
.TP
25-Aug-86  Mary R. Thompson (mrt)
Created man page.

