.TH VMSTAT 1 5/21/86
.CM 4
.SH NAME
vmstat \- show Mach virtual memory statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
vmstat [ interval ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I vmstat
displays Mach virtual memory statistics.
If the optional
.I interval
is specified, then
.I vmstat
will display the statistics every
.I interval
seconds.  In this case, each line of output displays the
.I change
in each statistic (so, an interval count of 1 displays the values per
second).  However, the first line of output following each banner
displays the system wide totals for each statistic.
The following values are displayed:
.br
.IP "\fBfree\fR" 1.5i
the total number of free pages in the system
.IP "\fBactive\fR"
the total number of pages currently in use and pageable.
.IP "\fBreclaimable\fR"
the total number of pages on the reclaim list.
.IP "\fBwired\fR"
the total number of pages wired down.
That is, pages that
can not be paged out.
.IP "\fBfaults\fR"
the number of times the "vm_fault" routine has been called.
.IP "\fBcopy\fR"
the number of faults that caused a page to be copied (generally
caused by copy-on-write faults).
.IP "\fBreclaimed\fR"
the number of pages that have been faulted while on the reclaim list.
.IP "\fBpageins\fR"
the number of requests for pages from a pager (such the the inode pager).
.IP "\fBpageouts\fR"
the number of pages that have been paged out.
.i0
.DT
.PP
.br
If
.I interval
is not specified, then vmstat displays all accumlated statistics along with the
page size and the object cache performance.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
vm_statistics(2)
.SH HISTORY
.TP
21-May-86  Avadis Tevanian (avie) at Carnegie-Mellon University
Created.
