.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH MrmFetchIconLiteral 3X
.SH NAME
\fBMrmFetchIconLiteral\fP \- Fetches an icon literal from a hierarchy.
.iX "MrmFetchIconLiteral"
.iX "uil functions" "MrmFetchIconLiteral"
.sp .5
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Trial-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <Mrm/MrmPublic.h>
.br
.NX R "MRM function" "MrmFetchIconLiteral"
.NX R "MrmFetchIconLiteral" "definition"
.BI "int MrmFetchIconLiteral(" "hierarchy_id" ","
.IB "index" ","
.IB "screen" ","
.IB "display" ","
.IB "fgpix" ","
.IB "bgpix" ","
.IB "pixmap" ")"
.in +5n
.br
.BI "MrmHierarchy " "hierarchy_id" ";"
.br
.BI "String " "index" ";"
.br
.BI "Screen *" "screen" ";"
.br
.BI "Display *" "display" ";"
.br
.BI "Pixel " "fgpix" ";"
.br
.BI "Pixel " "bgpix" ";"
.br
.BI "Pixmap *" "pixmap" ";"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
\fBMrmFetchIconLiteral\fP
function
.NX R "MrmFetchIconLiteral" "description"
fetches an icon literal from an MRM hierarchy, and converts the
icon literal to an X pixmap.
.sp
.ne 2i
.IP \fIhierarchy_id\fP 1.5i
Specifies the ID of the UID hierarchy that contains the
specified icon literal. 
The
\fIhierarchy_id\fP
was returned in a previous call to
\fBMrmOpenHierarchy\fP.
.IP \fIindex\fP 1.5i
Specifies the UIL name of the icon literal to fetch. 
.IP \fIscreen\fP 1.5i
Specifies the screen used for the pixmap.
The
\fIscreen\fP
argument specifies a pointer to the
Xlib structure
\fBScreen\fP
which contains the information about that screen and is linked to the
\fBDisplay\fP
structure.
For more information on the
\fBDisplay\fP 
and
\fBScreen\fP
structures, see the Xlib function
\fBXOpenDisplay\fP
and the associated screen information macros.
.IP \fIdisplay\fP 1.5i
Specifies the display used for the pixmap.
The
\fIdisplay\fP 
argument specifies the connection to the X server. 
For more information on the
\fBDisplay\fP structure, see the Xlib function
\fBXOpenDisplay\fP.
.IP \fIfgpix\fP 1.5i 
Specifies the foreground color for the pixmap.
.IP \fIbgpix\fP 1.5i 
Specifies the background color for the pixmap.
.IP \fIpixmap\fP 1.5i 
Returns the resulting X pixmap value.
.SH RETURN VALUE
.NX R "MrmSUCCESS"
.NX R "MrmBAD_HIERARCHY"
.NX R "MrmNOT_FOUND"
.NX R "MrmFAILURE"
This function returns one of these status return constants: 
.IP \fBMrmSUCCESS\fP 2.0i
The function executed successfully.
.IP \fBMrmBAD_HIERARCHY\fP
The hierarchy ID was invalid.
.IP \fBMrmNOT_FOUND\fP
The icon literal was not found in the hierarchy.
.IP \fBMrmFAILURE\fP
The function failed.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBMrmFetchLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fBMrmFetchColorLiteral(3X)\fP,
\fBXOpenDisplay(3X)\fP
