.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH OverrideShell 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBOverrideShell \(em The OverrideShell widget class.\fP
.iX "OverrideShell"
.iX "widget class" "OverrideShell"
.sp .5
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.br
\&#include <X11/Shell.h>\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
OverrideShell is used for shell windows that completely bypass 
the window manager, for example, PopupMenu shells.
.sp 1
.SS "Classes"
OverrideShell inherits behavior and resources from \fBCore\fP,
\fBComposite\fP, and \fBShell\fP.
.PP
The class pointer is \fBoverrideShellWidgetClass\fP.
.PP
The class name is \fBOverrideShell\fP.
.sp 1
.SS "New Resources"
OverrideShell defines no new resources, but overrides 
the \fBXmNoverrideRedirect\fP and \fBXmNsaveUnder\fP resources in the 
\fBShell\fP class.
.sp 1
.SS "Inherited Resources"
OverrideShell inherits behavior and resources from the following   
superclasses.  For a complete description of each resource, refer to the
man page for that superclass.
.PP
The following table defines a set of widget resources used by the programmer
to specify data.  The programmer can also set the resource values for the 
inherited classes to set attributes for this widget.  To reference a
resource by name or by class in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fBXmN\fP or
\fBXmC\fP prefix and use the remaining letters.  To specify one of the defined 
values for a resource in a .Xdefaults file, remove the \fBXm\fP prefix and use
the remaining letters (in either lowercase or uppercase, but include any
underscores between words).
The codes in the access column indicate if the given resource can be
set at creation time (\fBC\fP),
set by using \fBXtSetValues\fP (\fBS\fP), 
retrieved by using \fBXtGetValues\fP (\fBG\fP), or is not applicable (\fBN/A\fP).
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
Shell Resource Set
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNallowShellResize	XmCAllowShellResize	Boolean	False	CG
XmNcreatePopupChildProc	XmCCreatePopupChildProc	(*)()	NULL	CSG
XmNgeometry	XmCGeometry	String	NULL	CSG
XmNoverrideRedirect	XmCOverrideRedirect	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNpopdownCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNpopupCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNsaveUnder	XmCSaveUnder	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNvisual	XmCVisual	Visual *	CopyFromParent	CSG
.TE
.sp 1
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
Composite Resource Set 
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNchildren	XmCReadOnly	WidgetList	NULL	G
XmNinsertPosition	XmCInsertPosition	(*)()	NULL	CSG
XmNnumChildren	XmCReadOnly	Cardinal	0	G
.TE
.sp 1
.in 0
.TS
center allbox;
cBp9 ssss
lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8 lBp8
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
Core Resource Set 
Name	Class	Type	Default	Access
_
XmNaccelerators	XmCAccelerators	XtAccelerators	dynamic	CSG
XmNancestorSensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	dynamic	G
XmNbackground	XmCBackground	Pixel	dynamic	CSG
XmNbackgroundPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderColor	XmCBorderColor	Pixel	XtDefaultForeground	CSG
XmNborderPixmap	XmCPixmap	Pixmap	XmUNSPECIFIED_PIXMAP	CSG
XmNborderWidth	XmCBorderWidth	Dimension	1	CSG
XmNcolormap	XmCColormap	Colormap	dynamic	CG
XmNdepth	XmCDepth	int	dynamic	CG
XmNdestroyCallback	XmCCallback	XtCallbackList	NULL	C
XmNheight	XmCHeight	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNinitialResourcesPersistent	XmCInitialResourcesPersistent	Boolean	True	C
XmNmappedWhenManaged	XmCMappedWhenManaged	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNscreen	XmCScreen	Screen *	dynamic	CG
.tH
XmNsensitive	XmCSensitive	Boolean	True	CSG
XmNtranslations	XmCTranslations	XtTranslations	dynamic	CSG
XmNwidth	XmCWidth	Dimension	dynamic	CSG
XmNx	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
XmNy	XmCPosition	Position	0	CSG
.TE
.in
.sp 1 \"Adds space before the SS
.SS "Translations"
There are no translations for OverrideShell.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBComposite(3X)\fP, \fBCore(3X)\fP, and \fBShell(3X)\fP.
