.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCascadeButtonHighlight 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmCascadeButtonHighlight \(em A CascadeButton and
CascadeButtonGadget function that sets the highlight state.\fP
.iX "XmCascadeButtonHighlight"
.iX "CascadeButton functions" "XmCascadeButtonHighlight"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/CascadeB.h>
.br
\&#include <Xm/CascadeBG.h>
.sp 1
void XmCascadeButtonHighlight (\fIcascadeButton, highlight\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIcascadeButton\fP;
.br
	Boolean	\fIhighlight\fP;
.fi
\fP
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCascadeButtonHighlight\fP either draws or erases the shadow
highlight around the CascadeButton or the CascadeButtonGadget.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIcascadeButton\fP" 1.5i
Specifies the CascadeButton or CascadeButtonGadget to be highlighted
or unhighlighted.
.IP "\fIhighlight\fP" 1.5i
Specifies whether to highlight (True) or to unhighlight (False).
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of CascadeButton 
or CascadeButtonGadget and their associated resources, see
\fBXmCascadeButton(3X)\fP or \fBXmCascadeButtonGadget(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmCascadeButton(3X)\fP,
\fBXmCascadeButtonGadget(3X)\fP
and
\fBXmCascadeButtonGadgetHighlight(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
