.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmConvertUnits 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fB
XmConvertUnits \(em a function that converts a value in one unit type
to another unit type.\fP
.iX "XmConvertUnits"
.sp 1
.sp .5
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Trial-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
int XmConvertUnits (\fIwidget, orientation, from_unit_type,
from_value, to_unit_type\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	int	\fIorientation\fP;
.br
	int	\fIfrom_unit_type\fP;
.br
	int	\fIfrom_value\fP;
.br
	int	\fIto_unit_type\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmConvertUnits\fP converts the value and returns it as the return value from
the function.  
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.2i
Specifies the widget for which the data is to be converted
.br
.ne 6
.IP "\fIorientation\fP"1.2i
Specifies whether the converter uses the horizontal or vertical screen
resolution when performing the conversions.  \fIorientation\fR can have values of
\fBXmHORIZONTAL\fP or \fBXmVERTICAL\fP.
.IP "\fIfrom_unit_type\fP"1.2i
Specifies the current unit type of the supplied value
.IP "\fIfrom_value\fP"1.2i
Specifies the value to be converted
.IP "\fIto_unit_type\fP"1.2i
Converts the value to the unit type specified
.sp 1
.PP
The parameters \fIfrom_unit_type\fP and \fIto_unit_type\fP can have the 
following values:
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmPIXELS\fP \(em
all values provided to the widget are treated as normal pixel values.  This
is the default for the resource.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_MILLIMETERS\fP \(em
all values provided to the widget are treated as 1/100 millimeter.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm1000TH_INCHES\fP \(em
all values provided to the widget are treated as 1/1000 inch.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXm100TH_POINTS\fP \(em
all values provided to the widget are treated as 1/100 point.
A point is a unit typically used in text processing applications and
is defined as 1/72 inch.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the converted value.
If a NULL widget, incorrect \fIorientation\fR, or incorrect \fIunit_type\fP 
is supplied as parameter data, 0 is returned.
.sp 1
