.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateMessageBox 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fB
XmCreateMessageBox \(em the MessageBox widget creation function.\fP
.iX "XmCreateMessageBox"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateMessageBox"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/MessageB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCreateMessageBox (\fIparent, name, arglist, argcount\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP;
.fi
\fP
.sp 1
.sp
.ne 2i
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCreateMessageBox\fP creates an unmanaged MessageBox.
A MessageBox is used for common interaction tasks, which include giving
information, asking questions, and reporting errors.
.ne 4
It includes an optional symbol, a message, and three buttons.
.PP
By default, there is no symbol.  The default button labels are \fBOK\fP,
\fBCancel\fP, and \fBHelp\fP.
.PP
If the parent of the MessageBox is a Dialogshell, use \fBXtManageChild\fP to
pop up the MessageBox (passing the MessageBox as the widget parameter); use
\fBXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" .75i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of MessageBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the MessageBox widget ID.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
