.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateOptionMenu 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmCreateOptionMenu \(em a RowColumn widget convenience creation function.\fP
.iX "XmCreateOptionMenu"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateOptionMenu"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/RowColumn.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCreateOptionMenu (\fIparent, name, arglist, argcount\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCreateOptionMenu\fP creates an instance of a 
RowColumn widget of type \fBXmMENU_OPTION\fP 
and returns the associated widget ID.
.PP
It is provided as a convenience function for creating a RowColumn
widget configured to operate as an OptionMenu and is not implemented as a 
separate widget class. 
.PP
The OptionMenu widget is a specialized RowColumn manager composed of a
label, a selection area, and a 
single Pulldown MenuPane.  When an application creates
an OptionMenu widget, it supplies the label string and the Pulldown MenuPane.
In order to succeed, there must be a valid \fBXmNsubMenuId\fP resource set
when calling this function.
When the OptionMenu is created, the Pulldown MenuPane must have been 
created as a child of the OptionMenu's parent and must be
specified. 
The LabelGadget and the selection area (a CascadeButtonGadget) are created
by the OptionMenu.
.PP
The OptionMenu's Pulldown MenuPane must not contain any ToggleButtons or
ToggleButtonGadgets.
The results of including CascadeButtons or CascadeButtonGadgets in the
OptionMenu's Pulldown MenuPane are undefined.
.PP
An OptionMenu is laid out with the label displayed on one side of
the widget and the selection area on the other side.
The selection area has a dual purpose; it displays the label of the last
item selected from the associated Pulldown MenuPane, and it provides
the means for posting the Pulldown MenuPane.
.PP
The OptionMenu typically does not display any 3-D visuals around
itself or the internal LabelGadget.  By default, the internal 
CascadeButtonGadget has a visible 3-D shadow.
The application may change this 
by getting the CascadeButtonGadget ID using \fBXmOptionButtonGadget\fP, and then 
calling \fBXtSetValues\fP using the standard visual-related resources.
.PP
The Pulldown MenuPane is posted by moving the mouse pointer over the
selection area and pressing a mouse button defined by OptionMenu's
RowColumn parent.
The Pulldown MenuPane is posted
and positioned so that the last selected item is directly over
the selection area.  The mouse is then used to arm the desired menu
item.  When the mouse button is released, the armed menu item is selected
and the label within the selection area is changed to match that of
the selected item.  By default, \fBBSelect\fP is used to interact with an 
OptionMenu.
.PP
The OptionMenu also operates by using the keyboard interface mechanism.
If the application has established a mnemonic with the OptionMenu, 
typing Alt with the mnemonic causes the Pulldown MenuPane to be posted with
traversal enabled. 
.ne 3i
The standard traversal keys can then be used to
move within the MenuPane.  Selection can occur as the result of pressing 
the Return key or typing a mnemonic or accelerator for one of the
menu items.
.PP
An application may use the \fBXmNmenuHistory\fP resource to 
indicate which item in the Pulldown MenuPane should be treated as the current
choice and have its label displayed in the selection area.  By default,
the first item in the Pulldown MenuPane is used.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" .75i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of RowColumn and its associated resources, see
\fBXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the RowColumn widget ID.
.sp 1
.na
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmCascadeButtonGadget(3X)\fP,
\fBXmCreatePulldownMenu(3X)\fP,
\fBXmLabelGadget(3X)\fP,
\fBXmOptionButtonGadget(3X)\fP,
\fBXmOptionLabelGadget(3X)\fP, and
\fBXmRowColumn(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.ad
