.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateSelectionBox 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmCreateSelectionBox \(em the SelectionBox widget creation function.\fP
.iX "XmCreateSelectionBox"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateSelectionBox"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/SelectioB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCreateSelectionBox (\fIparent, name, arglist, argcount\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP;
.fi
\fP
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCreateSelectionBox\fP creates an unmanaged SelectionBox. 
A SelectionBox is used to get a selection
from a list of alternatives from the user and
includes the following:
.IP \(bu 3
A scrolling list of alternatives
.IP \(bu 3
An editable text field for the selected alternative
.IP \(bu 3
Labels for the list and text field
.IP \(bu 3
Three or four buttons
.PP
The default button labels are \fBOK\fP, \fBCancel\fP, and \fBHelp\fP.
By default an \fBApply\fP button is also created; if the parent of the
SelectionBox is a DialogShell it is managed, and otherwise it is unmanaged.
One additional \fBWorkArea\fP child may be added to the
SelectionBox after creation.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" .75i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of SelectionBox
and its associated resources, see \fBXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.ne 4i
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the SelectionBox widget ID.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP 
.sp 1
