.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmCreateSelectionDialog 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmCreateSelectionDialog \(em the SelectionBox SelectionDialog convenience 
creation function.\fP
.iX "XmCreateSelectionDialog"
.iX "creation functions" "XmCreateSelectionDialog"
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/SelectioB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmCreateSelectionDialog (\fIparent, name, arglist, argcount\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIparent\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	ArgList	\fIarglist\fP;
.br
	Cardinal	\fIargcount\fP;
.fi
\fP
.sp
.ne 4i
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmCreateSelectionDialog\fP is a convenience creation function that creates 
a DialogShell and an unmanaged SelectionBox child of the DialogShell. 
A SelectionDialog offers the user a choice from a list of alternatives  
and gets a selection. 
It includes the following:
.IP \(bu 3
A scrolling list of alternatives
.IP \(bu 3
An editable text field for the selected alternative
.IP \(bu 3
Labels for the text field
.IP \(bu 3
Four buttons
.PP
The default button labels are \fBOK\fP, \fBCancel\fP, \fBApply\fP,
and \fBHelp\fP.
One additional \fBWorkArea\fP child may be added to the
SelectionBox after creation.
.PP
\fBXmCreateSelectionDialog\fP forces the value of the SelectionBox resource
\fBXmNdialogType\fP to \fBXmDIALOG_SELECTION\fP.
.PP
Use \fBXtManageChild\fP to pop up the SelectionDialog (passing the
SelectionBox as the widget parameter);
use \fBXtUnmanageChild\fP to pop it down.
.IP "\fIparent\fP" .75i
Specifies the parent widget ID
.IP "\fIname\fP" .75i
Specifies the name of the created widget
.IP "\fIarglist\fP" .75i
Specifies the argument list
.IP "\fIargcount\fP" .75i
Specifies the number of attribute/value pairs in the argument list
(\fIarglist\fP)
.PP
For a complete definition of SelectionBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the SelectionBox widget ID.
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
