.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmDeactivateProtocol 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmDeactivateProtocol \(em a VendorShell function that deactivates a
protocol without removing it.\fP
.iX "XmDeactivateProtocol"
.iX "protocols"
.iX "VendorShell functions" "XmDeactivateProtocol"
.sp 1
.sp .5
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Trial-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.br
\&#include <X11/Protocols.h>
.sp 1
void XmDeactivateProtocol (\fIshell, property, protocol\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIshell\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fIproperty\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fIprotocol\fP;
.sp 1
void XmDeactivateWMProtocol (\fIshell, protocol\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIshell\fP;
.br
	Atom	\fIprotocol\fP;
.fi
\fP
.sp
.ne 3i
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmDeactivateProtocol\fP deactivates a protocol without removing it.
It updates the handlers and the \fIproperty\fP, if
the \fIshell\fP is realized.  It is sometimes useful to allow
a protocol's state information (callback lists, etc.) to persist, even though
the client may choose to temporarily resign from the interaction.  
The main use of this capability is to gray/ungray \fBf.send_msg\fP
entries in the Mwm system menu.  This is
supported by allowing a \fIprotocol\fP to be in one of two states:  active or
inactive.  If the \fIprotocol\fP is active and the \fIshell\fP is realized, 
the \fIproperty\fP contains the \fIprotocol\fP \fBAtom\fP.  
If the \fIprotocol\fP is inactive, the \fBAtom\fP is not present in
the \fIproperty\fP.
.br
.ne 7
.PP
\fBXmDeactivateWMProtocol\fP is a convenience interface.  
It calls \fBXmDeactivateProtocol\fP 
with the property value set to the atom returned by
interning \fBWM_PROTOCOLS\fP.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIshell\fP" .75i
Specifies the widget with which the protocol property is associated
.IP "\fIproperty\fP" .75i
Specifies the protocol property
.IP "\fIprotocol\fP" .75i
Specifies the protocol atom (or an int type cast to Atom)
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of VendorShell and its associated resources, see
\fBVendorShell(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBmwm(1X)\fP, \fBVendorShell(3X)\fP, \fBXmDeactivateWMProtocol(3X)\fP,
and \fBXmInternAtom(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
