.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmFontList "3X" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmFontList \(em Data type for a font list.\fP
.iX "XmFontList"
.iX "data types" "XmFontList"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Trial-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B XmFontList
is the data type for a font list.
Font lists contain information corresponding to one or more fonts.
Each element of the font list includes a font and a corresponding
character set.
When a compound string is displayed, the character sets in the compound
string are matched with the character sets in the font list, and the
corresponding fonts in the font list are used to display the string.
If the character set in a compound string segment does not match any
character set in the font list, the first font in the font list is used
to display that segment.
The font list interface consists of the routines listed under "Related
Information."
.PP
.sp
.ne 3i
Font lists are specified in resource files using the following syntax:
.PP
\fIresource_spec\fP \fB:\fP \fIfont_name\fP [ \fB=\fP \fIcharset\fP ] [ \fB,\fP
\fIfont_name\fP [ \fB=\fP \fIcharset\fP ] ]+
.PP
The resource value string consists of one or more font list elements
separated by commas.
Each font list element is a font name and an optional character set.
If a character set is specified for a font list element, it follows the
font name and is separated from the font name by \fB=\fP.
If no character set is specified, the character set is derived from the
current language environment.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.BR XmFontListAdd(3X) ,
.BR XmFontListCreate(3X) ", and "
.BR XmFontListFree(3X) .
.sp 1
