.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmGetColors 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmGetColors \(em a function that generates foreground, select, and
shadow colors.\fP
.iX "XmGetColors"
.iX "Color functions" "XmGetColors"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Trial-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
void XmGetColors (\fIscreen, colormap, background, foreground,
top_shadow, bottom_shadow, select\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Screen	\fI* screen\fP;
.br
	Colormap	\fIcolormap\fP;
.br
	Pixel	\fIbackground\fP;
.br
	Pixel	\fI* foreground\fP;
.br
	Pixel	\fI* top_shadow\fP;
.br
	Pixel	\fI* bottom_shadow\fP;
.br
	Pixel	\fI* select\fP;
.fi
\fP
.br
.ne 6
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmGetColors\fP takes a screen, a colormap, and a background pixel,
and it returns pixel values for foreground, select, and shadow colors.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIscreen\fP" .75i
Specifies the screen for which these colors should be allocated
.IP "\fIcolormap\fP" .75i
Specifies the colormap from which these colors should be allocated
.IP "\fIbackground\fP" .75i
Specifies the background on which the colors should be based
.IP "\fIforeground\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to the returned foreground pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is returned for this color.
.IP "\fItop_shadow\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to the returned top shadow pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is returned for this color.
.IP "\fIbottom_shadow\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to the returned bottom shadow pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is returned for this color.
.IP "\fIselect\fP" .75i
Specifies a pointer to the returned select pixel value.
If this argument is NULL no value is returned for this color.
.sp 1
