.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmInternAtom 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmInternAtom \(em a function that returns an atom for a given name.\fP
.iX "XmInternAtom"
.iX "atoms"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH "HISTORY/DIRECTION"
The include file \fBAtomMgr.h\fP moved from the \fBX11\fP directory
to the \fBXm\fP directory.  In revision B this include file will be
accessible from either directory.  In future revisions it will only
be accessible from the \fBXm\fP directory.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.br
\&#include <Xm/AtomMgr.h>
.sp 1
Atom XmInternAtom (\fIdisplay, name, only_if_exists\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Display	\fI* display\fP;
.br
	String	\fIname\fP;
.br
	Boolean	\fIonly_if_exists\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmInternAtom\fP returns an atom for a given name.  
It mirrors the \fBXlib\fP interfaces for atom management, but provides
client-side caching.  When and where caching is provided in \fBXlib\fP, the
routines will become pseudonyms for the \fBXlib\fP routines.  
.IP "\fIdisplay\fP" 1i
Specifies the connection to the X server
.IP "\fIname\fP" 1i
Specifies the name associated with the atom you want returned
.IP "\fIonly_if_exists\fP" 1i
Specifies a Boolean value that indicates whether \fBXInternAtom\fP creates
the atom
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns an atom.
