.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmMainWindowSetAreas 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmMainWindowSetAreas \(em a MainWindow function that identifies manageable
children for each area.\fP
.iX "XmMainWindowSetAreas"
.iX "MainWindow functions" "XmMainWindowSetAreas"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/MainW.h>
.sp 1
void XmMainWindowSetAreas (\fIwidget, menu_bar, command_window, 
.br
horizontal_scrollbar, vertical_scrollbar, work_region\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	Widget	\fImenu_bar\fP;
.br
	Widget	\fIcommand_window\fP;
.br
	Widget	\fIhorizontal_scrollbar\fP;
.br
	Widget	\fIvertical_scrollbar\fP;
.br
	Widget	\fIwork_region\fP;
\fP
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmMainWindowSetAreas\fP identifies which of the valid children for each 
area (such as the MenuBar and work region) are to be actively managed by MainWindow.
This function also sets up or adds the MenuBar, work window, command
window, and ScrollBar widgets to the application's main window widget.  
.PP
Each area is optional; therefore, the user can pass NULL to one or more
of the following arguments.  The window manager provides the title bar.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the MainWindow widget ID.
.IP "\fImenu_bar\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the widget ID for the MenuBar to be associated 
with the MainWindow widget.  Set this ID only after creating an instance
of the MainWindow widget.  The attribute name associated with this
argument is \fBXmNmenuBar\fP.
.IP "\fIcommand_window\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the widget ID for the command window 
to be associated 
with the MainWindow widget.  Set this ID only after creating an instance
of the MainWindow widget.  The attribute name associated with this
argument is \fBXmNcommandWindow\fP.
.IP "\fIhorizontal_scrollbar\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the ScrollBar widget ID for the 
horizontal ScrollBar to be associated 
with the MainWindow widget.  Set this ID only after creating an instance
of the MainWindow widget.  The attribute name associated with this
argument is \fBXmNhorizontalScrollBar\fP.
.IP "\fIvertical_scrollbar\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the ScrollBar widget ID for the 
vertical ScrollBar to be associated 
with the MainWindow widget.  Set this ID only after creating an instance
of the MainWindow widget.  The attribute name associated with this
argument is \fBXmNverticalScrollBar\fP.
.IP "\fIwork_region\fP" 1.25i
Specifies the widget ID for the work window to be associated 
with the MainWindow widget.  Set this ID only after creating an instance
of the MainWindow widget.  The attribute name associated with this
argument is \fBXmNworkWindow\fP.
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of MainWindow and its associated resources, see
\fBXmMainWindow(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmMainWindow(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
