.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmMessageBoxGetChild 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmMessageBoxGetChild \(em a MessageBox function that is used to access
a component.\fP
.iX "XmMessageBoxGetChild"
.iX "MessageBox functions" "XmMessageBoxGetChild"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/MessageB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmMessageBoxGetChild (\fIwidget, child\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	unsigned char	\fIchild\fP;
.fi
\fP
.br
.ne 5i
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmMessageBoxGetChild\fP is used to access a component within a MessageBox.
The parameters given to the function are the MessageBox widget and a value
indicating which child to access.
.sp 1
.PP
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the MessageBox widget ID.
.IP "\fIchild\fP" .75i
Specifies a component within the MessageBox.  The following are legal values
for this parameter:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_CANCEL_BUTTON\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_DEFAULT_BUTTON\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_HELP_BUTTON\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_MESSAGE_LABEL\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_OK_BUTTON\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_SEPARATOR\fP
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_SYMBOL_LABEL\fP
.RE
.sp 1
.PP 
For a complete definition of MessageBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmMessageBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget ID of the specified MessageBox child.
An application should not assume that the returned widget will be of any
particular class.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmMessageBox(3X)\fP. 
.sp 1
