.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmProcessTraversal 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmProcessTraversal \(em a function that determines which component
receives keyboard events when a widget has the focus.\fP
.iX "XmProcessTraversal"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Trial-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Boolean XmProcessTraversal (\fIwidget, direction\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	int	\fIdirection\fP;
.fi
\fP
.br
.ne 11
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmProcessTraversal\fP determines which component of a hierarchy
receives keyboard events when the hierarchy that contains the given
widget has keyboard focus.  
It is not possible to use \fBXmProcessTraversal\fP to traverse to
MenuBars, Pulldown MenuPanes, or Popup MenuPanes.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" 1.2i
Specifies the widget ID of the widget whose hierarchy is to be traversed
.IP "\fIdirection\fP" 1.2i
Specifies the direction of traversal
.PP
The \fIdirection\fP parameter can have the following values, which cause
the routine to take the corresponding actions:
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTRAVERSE_CURRENT\fP \(em
Finds the hierarchy and the tab group that contain \fIwidget\fP.
If this tab group is not the active tab group, makes it the active tab
group.
If \fIwidget\fP is an item in the active tab group, makes it the active
item.
If \fIwidget\fP is the active tab group, makes the first traversable
item in the tab group the active item.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTRAVERSE_DOWN\fP \(em
Finds the hierarchy that contains \fIwidget\fP.
Finds the active item in the active tab group and makes the item below
it the active item.
If there is no item below, wraps.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTRAVERSE_HOME\fP \(em
Finds the hierarchy that contains \fIwidget\fP.
Finds the active item in the active tab group and makes the first
traversable item in the tab group the active item.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTRAVERSE_LEFT\fP \(em
Finds the hierarchy that contains \fIwidget\fP.
Finds the active item in the active tab group and makes the item to the
left the active item.
If there is no item to the left, wraps.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTRAVERSE_NEXT\fP \(em
Finds the hierarchy that contains \fIwidget\fP.
Finds the active item in the active tab group and makes the next item
the active item.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTRAVERSE_NEXT_TAB_GROUP\fP \(em
Finds the hierarchy that contains \fIwidget\fP.
Finds the active tab group (if any) and makes the next tab group the
active tab group in the hierarchy.
.br
.ne 4
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTRAVERSE_PREV\fP \(em
Finds the hierarchy that contains \fIwidget\fP.
Finds the active item in the active tab group and makes the previous
item the active item.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTRAVERSE_PREV_TAB_GROUP\fP \(em
Finds the hierarchy that contains \fIwidget\fP.
Finds the active tab group (if any) and makes the previous tab group the
active tab group in the hierarchy.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTRAVERSE_RIGHT\fP \(em
Finds the hierarchy that contains \fIwidget\fP.
Finds the active item in the active tab group and makes the item to the
right the active item.
If there is no item to the right, wraps.
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmTRAVERSE_UP\fP \(em
Finds the hierarchy that contains \fIwidget\fP.
Finds the active item in the active tab group and makes the item above
it the active item.
If there is no item above, wraps.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns True if the setting succeeded.
Returns False if the keyboard focus policy is not \fBXmEXPLICIT\fP, if
there are no traversable items, or if the call to the routine has
invalid parameters.
.\".sp 1
.\".SH RELATED INFORMATION
.sp 1
