.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmSelectionBoxGetChild 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmSelectionBoxGetChild \(em a SelectionBox function that is used to
access a component.\fP
.iX "XmSelectionBoxGetChild"
.iX "SelectionBox functions" "XmSelectionBoxGetChild"
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/SelectioB.h>
.sp 1
Widget XmSelectionBoxGetChild (\fIwidget, child\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.sp 1
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	unsigned char	\fIchild\fP;
.fi
\fP
.br
.ne 15
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmSelectionBoxGetChild\fP is used to access a component within a
SelectionBox.  The parameters given to the function are the SelectionBox 
widget and a value indicating which child to access.
.sp 1
.PP
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the SelectionBox widget ID.
.IP "\fIchild\fP" .75i
Specifies a component within the SelectionBox.  The following are
legal values for this parameter:
.RS
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_APPLY_BUTTON
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_CANCEL_BUTTON
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_DEFAULT_BUTTON
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_HELP_BUTTON
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_LIST
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_LIST_LABEL
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_OK_BUTTON
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_SELECTION_LABEL
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_SEPARATOR
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_TEXT
.IP \(bu 3
\fBXmDIALOG_WORK_AREA
.RE
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of SelectionBox and its associated resources, see
\fBXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.ne 2i
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the widget ID of the specified SelectionBox child.
An application should not assume that the returned widget will be of any
particular class.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmSelectionBox(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
