.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringWidth 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringWidth \(em a compound string function that returns the width of
the longest sequence of text components in a compound string.\fP
.iX "XmStringWidth"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringWidth"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Trial-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Dimension XmStringWidth (\fIfontlist, string\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	XmFontList	\fIfontlist\fP;
.br
	XmString	\fIstring\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringWidth\fP 
returns the width, in pixels, of the longest sequence of text
components in the provided compound string.  Separator components are used
to delimit sequences of text components.
.PP
.ne 2i
When \fIstring\fP has been created with \fBXmStringCreateSimple\fP, the
font associated with the character set derived from the
current language environment must
appear at the front of \fIfontlist\fP.
Otherwise, the result of the function is undefined.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIfontlist\fP" .75i
Specifies the font list
.IP "\fIstring\fP" .75i 
Specifies the string
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the width of the compound string.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and
\fBXmStringCreateSimple(3X).
.sp 1
