.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmString "3X" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmString \(em Data type for a compound string.\fP
.iX "XmString"
.iX "data types" "XmString"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Trial-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B "\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B XmString 
is the data type for a compound string.
Compound strings include one or more segments, each of which contains
text, character set, and string direction.
When a compound string is displayed, the character set and direction are
used to determine how to display the text.
The compound string interface consists of the routines listed under
"Related Information."
.PP
Calling \fBXtGetValues\fP for a resource whose type is XmString yields a
copy of the compound string resource value.
The application is responsible for using \fBXmStringFree\fP to free the
memory allocated for the copy.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
.BR XmStringBaseline(3X) ,
.BR XmStringByteCompare(3X) ,
.BR XmStringCompare(3X) ,
.BR XmStringConcat(3X) ,
.BR XmStringCopy(3X) ,
.BR XmStringCreate(3X) ,
.BR XmStringCreateSimple(3X) ,
.BR XmStringDraw(3X) ,
.BR XmStringDrawImage(3X) ,
.BR XmStringDrawUnderline(3X) ,
.BR XmStringEmpty(3X) ,
.BR XmStringExtent(3X) ,
.BR XmStringFree(3X) ,
.BR XmStringHasSubstring(3X) ,
.BR XmStringHeight(3X) ,
.BR XmStringLength(3X) ,
.BR XmStringLineCount(3X) ,
.BR XmStringNConcat(3X) ,
.BR XmStringNCopy(3X) ,
.BR XmStringSeparatorCreate(3X) ,
.BR XmStringTable(3X) ", and "
.BR XmStringWidth(3X) .
.sp 1
