.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringBaseline 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringBaseline \(em a compound string function that returns the number of
pixels between the top of the character box and the baseline of the first
line of text.\fP
.iX "XmStringBaseline"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringBaseline"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Trial-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
Dimension XmStringBaseline (\fIfontlist, string\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
.br
	XmFontList	\fIfontlist\fP;
.br
	XmString	\fIstring\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringBaseline\fP
returns the number of pixels between the top of the character
box and the baseline of the first line of text in the provided compound
string.
.PP
.ne 2i
When \fIstring\fP has been created with \fBXmStringCreateSimple\fP, the
font associated with the character set derived from the
current language environment must
appear at the front of \fIfontlist\fP.
Otherwise, the result of the function is undefined.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIfontlist\fP" .75i 
Specifies the font list
.IP "\fIstring\fP" .75i 
Specifies the string
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns the number of
pixels between the top of the character box and the baseline of the first
line of text.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmStringCreate(3X)\fP and
\fBXmStringCreateSimple(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
