.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmStringCreate 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmStringCreate \(em a compound string function that creates a compound 
string.\fP
.iX "XmStringCreate"
.iX "compound string functions" "XmStringCreate"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Temporary-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Xm.h>
.sp 1
XmString XmStringCreate (\fItext, charset\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.75i
.br
	char	\fI* text\fP;
.br
	XmStringCharSet	\fIcharset\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmStringCreate\fP creates a compound
string with two components: text and a character set.
.sp 1
.IP "\fItext\fP" .75i
Specifies a null-terminated string to be used as the text component of
the compound string.
.IP "\fIcharset\fP" .75i
Specifies the character set identifier to be associated with the given
text.
.sp 1
.SH RETURN VALUE
Returns a new compound string.
.sp 1
.na
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmFontList(3X)\fP,
\fBXmFontListAdd(3X)\fP,
\fBXmFontListCreate(3X)\fP,
\fBXmFontListFree(3X)\fP,
\fBXmString(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringBaseline(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringByteCompare(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringCompare(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringConcat(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringCopy(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringCreateSimple(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringDraw(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringDrawImage(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringDrawUnderline(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringEmpty(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringExtent(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringFree(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringHasSubstring(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringHeight(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringLength(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringLineCount(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringNConcat(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringNCopy(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringSeparatorCreate(3X)\fP,
\fBXmStringTable(3X)\fP, and
\fBXmStringWidth(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.ad
