.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmTextInsert 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmTextInsert \(em a Text function that inserts a character string into a text string.\fP
.iX "XmTextInsert"
.iX "Text functions" "XmTextInsert"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Trial-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/Text.h>
.sp 1
void XmTextInsert(\fIwidget, position, value\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 2i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	XmTextPosition	\fIposition\fP;
.br
	char	\fI* value\fP;
.fi
\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmTextInsert\fP inserts a character string into the text string in
the Text widget.  The character positions begin at zero and are numbered
sequentially from the beginning of the text.  For example, to insert a
string after the fourth character, the parameter \fIposition\fP must be
4.
.PP
.ne 2i
This routine also calls the widget's \fBXmNmodifyVerifyCallback\fP and
\fBXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP callbacks.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the Text widget ID.
.IP "\fIposition\fP" .75i
Specifies the position in the text string where the character string is
to be inserted.
.IP "\fIvalue\fP" .75i
Specifies the character string value to be added to the text widget.
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of Text and its associated resources, see
\fBXmText(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmText(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
