.\" **
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1989, 1990, 1991 Open Software Foundation, Inc.
.\" **      All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988, 1989, by Hewlett-Packard Company
.\" **
.\" **  (c) Copyright 1987, 1988 by Digital Equipment Corporation,
.\" **      Maynard, MA.  All Rights Reserved.
.\" **
.\" **
.TH XmToggleButtonSetState 3X "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBXmToggleButtonSetState \(em a ToggleButton function that sets or changes
the current state.\fP
.iX "XmToggleButtonSetState"
.iX "ToggleButton functions" "XmToggleButtonSetState"
.sp 1
.SH "AES SUPPORT LEVEL"
Full-use
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB
\&#include <Xm/ToggleB.h>
.sp 1
void XmToggleButtonSetState (\fIwidget, state, notify\fP)
.br
.ta .5i 1.5i
	Widget	\fIwidget\fP;
.br
	Boolean	\fIstate\fP;
.br
	Boolean	\fInotify\fP;
.fi
\fP
.br
.ne 12 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBXmToggleButtonSetState\fP sets or changes the ToggleButton's current state.
.sp 1
.IP "\fIwidget\fP" .75i
Specifies the ToggleButton widget ID.
.IP "\fIstate\fP" .75i
Specifies a Boolean value that indicates whether the ToggleButton state is
selected or unselected.  If True, the button state is selected; 
if False, the button state is unselected.
.IP "\fInotify\fP" .75i
Indicates whether \fBXmNvalueChangedCallback\fP is called; 
it can be either True or False.
When this argument is True and the ToggleButton is a child of a
RowColumn widget whose \fBXmNradioBehavior\fP is True, selecting the
ToggleButton causes other ToggleButton and ToggleButtonGadget
children of the RowColumn to be unselected.
.sp 1
.PP
For a complete definition of ToggleButton and 
its associated resources, see \fBXmToggleButton(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
.SH RELATED INFORMATION
\fBXmToggleButton(3X)\fP.
.sp 1
